"We have a parliamentary system of democracy. Parties win favour or are voted out. In recent years the political changes have introduced a Coalition form of government. Gone are the days when one single party used to rule. Today power-sharing is there. It has to be accepted but it brings some uncertainty and insecurity about processes of governance. The founding fathers of our republic introduced the Civil Services which are unique combination rooted in the harsh realities of governing a country of our size and complexity. Our officers work at ground levels, get first hand experience and come to know the real India that lives in villages and not in cities. We draw upon their wisdom and their experience from time to time and bring them to the Centre so that the national processes of governance acquires a coherence. But at the same time, you should not be forgetful of the realities at the grass root level.  Our system of governance must address  the primary task of developing our economic and social potential to enable our country get rid of poverty, ignorance and disease in the shortest possible time period that requires a new orientation of our civil services. The important duties discharged by a civil servant cannot be discharged by anyone else. Development is a matter of primary concern and development requires that there should be a firm maintenance of  law and order. Citizens must not fear arbitrary governments and that too rests a very important responsibility on our civil services. The law and order maintenance has become more difficult as the process of development sometimes gives rise to  tension and dissatisfaction. It is the responsibility of sensitive civil services to detect these challenges and maintain cohesiveness  that enhances the dignity of our citizens. Ours is a country of diversity. Maintenance of communal harmony is very important. What happened in Gujarat has caused a scar on the body politic. Such things should not happen in future. We must protect and empower those who are weak. We must provide greatest power of expression to dynamic forces and sustain a social and economic process which gives a ray of hope to those who are at the lowest rank of the ladder that they have a chance to catch up. That has to be the basic way of approach. In our country, governments both  centre, states and local authorities play a very important role and 33 percent of the national expenditure is accounted by the government which is a large chunk. It is very important that this expenditure is wisely incurred and while decisions are taken, full record should be kept to ensure  efficiency and ensure that spending processes do not give rise to corruption, for this bring disrepute to the civil services and the government. Our people work very hard and we tax even the poorest segments of our society. So our resources should be wisely used. Possibility of misuse and corruption is always there, so it is what you do  by setting an example is going to be the determining factor as how public views our government and administration. Administration must make a mark at our  commitments, ideas and ideals by which our country stands, that is the service of poor and down trodden. This does not mean that you do not  ensure comfortable living for you and your family, for this is important to discharge your duties. But have a deep regard to the commitments of the founding fathers of the constitution. Human knowledge is increasing at a pace that is unthinkable. So, you must develop an aptitude for education and re-education. This is not the end of your life. Technology is changing very fast. Social and economic forces and giving self-expressions in diverse ways that are unpredictable. Life should be continuous process of learning and re-learning. Be sensitive to the winds of change and be flexible to assume that you do not have the monopoly of the system all the time.	 Our system needs to develop appraisal skills which reward creativity of those who take initiative  and not those who do nothing. India needs people who have capacity and courage to take bold decisions. Our system must recognize  the difference between honest mistakes made while discharging duties and willful attempt to misuse public office. That is a challenge for all of us and I do hope that this will receive attention. Civil servants are allotted different states. You must always remember sovereignty rests with the Union of India. We need to uphold India's unity and integrity. We must never lose sight that founding fathers created this Union of India and it is our duty to protect its unity and integrity. You are servants of  X state or Y state. You discharge those responsibilities efficiently but do not forget  that you are also officers an All India commitment to preserving and maintaining the unity and integrity of our country. So decisions that you take and decisions that you do not take, you must always bear in mind the all India nature of the services like the IAS. One more thing I would like to say that the world is changing and we have to change with it. Geographical barriers are ceasing. IT has developed enormously and processes of globalization are sweeping every part of the world. This has increased the competition which often strenghthens those who are strong and weakens those who are weak. We need to manage this process of change. Gains of globalization should be equitably  distributed. We must have an abiding faith  in our value system. You are the most elite services in our country. Our country needs top class civil servants. You are thus nation-builders in the truest sense of the term. Make good use of the opportunities you have and keep the values in mind while working so that we can build the India of our dreams."
