"I deem it a privilege to release this  book on the life and achievements of the late Om Prakash Jindalji.  Om Prakashji was an inspiring and enterprising person, whose life story is one of extraordinary achievements.   His myriad accomplishments truly represent the triumph of the human spirit over the many adversities of life.  I pay tribute to the memory of this extraordinary son of India and it is in this context that I am especially grateful for this opportunity to be amongst you today.The story of Om Prakashji is a saga of effort, courage and achievement and dedication.  Like so many of us in India, Om Prakashji started life as a man of modest means. He did not even have what we now consider to be the initial advantage of an elite education.   However, this farmer's son had in him the steel and resolve that are the hallmark of a true son of the soil.This biography, prepared by Shri Anil Dharkar, tells us that as a child, he had once wanted to  become a wrestler. On hearing this, his mother cautioned him not to return home crying if he lost a bout.  She advised him thus :  "If you fight, fight to win" !  Taking this lesson to heart, he wrestled with the myriad problems of life; he fought against adversity in business and politics, and he always came out with flying colours.  His perseverance and indomitable will were the secret of his impressive accomplishments.  Om Prakashji's achievements in diverse fields are a reflection of his robust vision, enterprise and creativity, earthy pragmatism and courage.  It is not often that we encounter a biography of a farmer's son that is entitled "The Man who Talked to Machines"! Om Prakashji belongs to that rare generation of pioneering Indian entrepreneurs whose roots lay deep in the soil of Mother India, but whose dreams soared into the skies.  Men like him mastered modern technology and applied such knowledge in the service of the common man.  That he could do so much with so little that was at his disposal when he took his first steps in business is a testimony to his immense managerial and technical skills.   He not only 'spoke to machines' but he was able to achieve communion with them, thus making them serve the larger goals of our society and nation. I am told that when he was a student in the village school, he was instinctively drawn to any truck and tractor which had halted nearby. Displaying keen interest, he used to closely inspect the machine to understand their operation.  He used to volunteer his help in case any repair was to be undertaken.  His youthful passion to see the "Made in England" markings on the products he saw replaced by a "Made in India" label testify both to his patriotism and his sense of commitment.   The nationalist in him could not come to accept that even ordinary pipes used in India had to be  imported from England.  He translated his dreams into action with the establishment of a plant first near Kolkata and then in his karambhoomi, Hissar.  That maiden venture was a landmark.  It became a stepping-stone to many other ventures.  Today Jindal Iron, Jindal Strips, Jindal Steel and other companies spread over India and the world have become torchbearers of high standards and cutting edge quality in the manufacturing sector. The transformation of farmer's son, a "sixth standard pass engineer", as he was once described, into an industrial billionaire earned him a certain standing worldwide. Yet Om Prakashji was not weighed down by fortune or fame.  He retained his sense of fellow feeling for his kinsmen and village folk. In this regard, it would be fair to say that Om Prakashji's life and work had a much larger purpose than solely making profits.     He was also committed to the welfare of the people, and social responsibility became an integral part of his business philosophy. His "People First" approach remained at the heart of his industrial activities. Om Prakashji's concern for productivity matched his commitment to the workers in his enterprises.  He believed that the development of land for factory construction must go hand in hand with its development for housing of workers and staff. This epitomized Gandhiji's vision of business as a "trust" in the hands of entrepreneurs on behalf of society.These diverse impulses eventually impelled Om Prakashji to substantiate his sensitivity to the concerns of our society and people.   He therefore came forward to actively participate in public life.   His role as a representative of the people both in the State Legislature of Haryana, and in our Nation's Parliament are noteworthy.  In fact, I recall his speech at the Special Sitting of the Lok Sabha in August 1997, convened to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of our Independence, where he stressed the importance of improving our infrastructure.  It struck a chord with me because it is also a cause that is very dear to me and to our Government.  Om Prakashji placed equal emphasis on the development of physical infrastructure — such as roads, telecommunication services and transport facilities — as well as social infrastructure to build our Nation. On a personal note, I have had the pleasure and privilege of interacting with Om Prakashji on several occasions over the past two decades.  Both last year and this year, we campaigned together, first for the Lok Sabha and then in the elections in Haryana.  I had the opportunity to speak  at Hissar earlier this year, and after seeing how dearly his voters loved him, I was convinced of his eventual victory that he won a convincing victory and took on the important charge of managing the State's power policy and resources seemed only a fitting result.  Sadly, Om Prakashji's premature departure from our midst have not only caused all of us great pain and distress but have also left a huge void in the polity and economy of Haryana and our Nation.  In his passing the nation has lost one of our most dynamic entrepreneurs, one of our most committed political leaders and, above all, a truly fine and sincere human being.  He has, without doubt, left a rich legacy of entrepreneurship and leadership.  Om Prakashiji's children will, I am sure, do us proud. I have admired their talent and commitment and I see in them the spirit of their father.  I wish them well in all their endeavours.   India of twenty first century needs the vision and dedication of men like Om Prakash Jindal, and I trust all of us will carry his ideals forward as his true legacy."
