I feel greatly honoured and privileged to be present here today as we mark the opening of a new page in the history of this blessed country of Afghanistan. It is an honour that gives me particular satisfaction, as a friend of Afghanistan and a representative of the Indian people who constitute the world's largest democracy and the oldest in this region. Today, as Baba-e-Millat lays the foundation stone of the ParliarT1ent of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, the roots of a plant are being laid that will, through your nurturing and care, grow into a sturdy 'panja chinar' of democracy. Representation is the very essence of democracy. This edifice, when it is built, will be the very heart of democracy in Afghanistan. We believe that democratic institutions need to be encouraged, nursed and promoted. We also believe that they should develop and evolve in accordance with the culture, values and native genius of each country. We are partnering other democracies through the Global Democracy Initiative and have contributed $10 million to the UN Democracy Fund to be used to promote institutions based on the eternal values of liberty, equality and fraternity. Afghanistan may be a young democracy but it has always been a plural society, with a unique mosaic of different ethnic and linguistic groups. The Afghan people have a tradition of democratic discourse through institutions like the Loya Jirgas. The practice of consensual decision-making in Afghanistan is centuries old. We have seen the affirmation of this democratic culture through the successful conclusion of both the Emergency Loya Jirga and the Constitutional Loya Jirga. We admire and respect the manner in which this exercise was carried out under the gaze of international media and observers and we salute our Afghan brethren on this remarkable achievement. Bya happy coincidence, 26th of January, the Indian Republic Day, also marks the day when the Afghan Constitution came into effect in the year 2004. Democracy thrives in open societies. But open societies, whet"ler old or young, are equally threatened today by the rise of global terrorism. In fact, the open culture of our societies makes us all the more vulnerable. Globalisation has made the world inter-connected and inter-dependent. To deal effectively with global terrorism, democracies need to work together. Afghanistan has a unique position in this alliance of democracies that are fighting this menace. We are ready to work with the Government and people of Afghanistan to ensure that Afghanistan will never again be hostage to or become a haven for terrorists. Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, The real test of a functioning democracy does not lie within the pages of the Constitution. That will lie in the august House where the elected representatives of the Wolesi Jirga and Meshrano Jirga will sit and debate the issues of the day. Our initiative to join you in building the Afghan Parliament marks the beginning of a new and strengthened friendship between our two countries and peoples. It reflects our commitment to work with all of you for a democratic, stable and prosperous Afghanistan. Thank You.
