I have great pleasure in associating myself with the inauguration of the National Institute of Siddha. Tamil Nadu is the home of this indigenous system of medicine that has for centuries served the needs of our people. It is, therefore, only appropriate that this National Institute is located here in Chennai. Our Government is proud of the fact that we have imparted a new pride among our people in the great heritage of the Tamil language and culture. The official recognition of the status of Tamil as a Classical Language is a proud achievement of our Government. Today I am happy that we are opening this new center that will throw more light on the contribution of the Tamil people to our knowledge and progress. The term Siddha connotes achievements. The Siddhars were saints of earlier times who achieved marvelous results in medicine. To perpetuate and develop their systems of analysis and prescription is our duty.Siddha is a holistic system of medicine that is a fine blend of science, medicine, spirituality and philosophy. I salute the Siddhar saints of the past for their vision, spirit of scientific enquiry and their ability to harmonise it with spirituality, philosophy and nature. The antiquity of the Siddha system is impressive.  Its theoretical underpinning and empirical record has fascinated medical researchers across the world. It is a living tribute to the scientific insight of the ancient Tamils and is part of our proud national heritage.The nation owes a debt of gratitude to all those traditional practitioners of Siddha system who have passed down the knowledge of Siddha from generation to generation.  For many decades they took the entire burden of providing health care in the remotest areas of the country. Many of the traditional practitioners of Siddha are serving the weak and needy sections of society. They are the repositories of the some of the rare formulations of this holistic system of medicine. I think the National Institute of Siddha should come forward and seek their cooperation in sharing this treasure of knowledge with all the practitioners of this system.Increasingly mankind is turning to indigenous system of medicines which are holistic and which not only treat the disease but also prevent it. Almost free of side effects, these systems attempt  a holistic treatment of body, mind and spirit in tackling disability and disease. Allopathic medicine has largely been curative in its approach. Our traditional systems of medicine have combined curative solutions with preventive ones. Moreover, their side effects are limited or even non-existent.  The increasing popularity of holistic systems of medicine in developed countries testify to their efficacy in dealing with the complex health disorders of the modern world. While rejoicing at the relevance and wide acceptability of such medicines we have to help rejuvenate them through modern and scientific research. Mahatma Gandhi had often lamented the  fact that a lack of application of the scientific method into research in Ayurveda was the principal cause of its retarded growth. This is true of Siddha as well. We have a treasure house of knowledge in the Siddha system of medicine but we need to contextualise it. If we put Siddha medicines in line with scientific method, there is bound to be progress and more discoveries for the health and happiness of mankind. After all science means keeping an open mind and subjecting prevailing practices and postulates to experimentation and examination. The disciplines of modern science are by no means the exclusive preserve of modern systems of medicine.  The specialists in the field of microbiology, biochemistry, anatomy, physiology, biotechnology, etc. can provide valuable support to take the holistic medicine forward.In partnership with the laboratories of the CSIR, ICMR, universities, pharmaceutical companies, etc., the National Institute of Siddha will have to standardize frequently used formulations. Similarly, modern manufacturing processes have to be developed and patented.   Strict adherence to good manufacturing practices and standardization and quality control of Siddha medicines is the need of the hour. Besides, the complementarity of the various Indian systems of medicines must be explored and exploited to enrich every system. By adopting the best therapies and formulations of other systems we can make them more broad based and effective in dealing with diseases. This can be worked out in a transparent manner by involving all stakeholders.   It is heartening to note that important progress has been made in Tamil Nadu in the direction of mainstreaming of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani at the primary health care level. This should be tried in the National Rural Health Mission.The National Institute of Siddha can play a pioneering role by reforming and developing the curriculum for graduate and post graduate degrees. In this context let me refer to the palm leaves of great antiquity which contain invaluable medicinal formulations and provide deep insights to Siddha medicines. If they are collected and digitalized and printed they would benefit future generations.This Institute, I am given to understand has been completed ahead of the schedule. This testifies to the whole hearted and constructive cooperation between the Central and State Governments. The Officials of the AYUSH, and other departments of the central Government and the officials of the  Government of Tamil Nadu deserve appreciation for the notable achievement. I would like to thank Dr. Jayalalitha, Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu for her support in completing the project.The inauguration of this Institute is a landmark in our quest for better health care. I do hope it will break new ground by integrating traditional wisdom with modern science and technology. Such an integrated approach can help popularize the Siddha system of medicine in India and abroad. I extend my greetings and good wishes to all those associated with this prestigious Institute. I wish them success in their creative endeavours.Jai Hind.
