Your Majesties, Excellencies,My Co-Chair President Mugabe,This has been a truly historic day.We had the opportunity to listen to the whole of Africa.Our first two Summits were limited to a few countries on the basis of the Banjul formula.We are honoured today that all 54 African Nations are participating.Your response is a clear affirmation that this is the right format for India and Africa to meet.I express profound gratitude to each of you for sharing your thoughts.There is nothing that teaches you more than the wisdom of your friends.All of us in India have been inspired by your aspirations for your country and Africa; your vision for this world; your feelings for India; and, your expectations from our partnership.Your friendship and faith is a source of great pride and strength for us.Listening to you has reinforced my conviction that partnership between India and Africa is natural, because our destinies are so closely inter-linked and our aspirations and challenges are so similar.We will work with you to realize your vision of a prosperous Africa, based on inclusive growth, empowered citizens and sustainable development; an integrated and culturally vibrant Africa; and, a peaceful and secure Africa, which has its rightful global place and is a strong partner for the world.I have listened carefully on how we can make our partnership more effective.Your feedback and suggestions will be very helpful in restructuring our Lines of Credit. We will take into account your special circumstances and we will ensure even greater speed and transparency in their utilisation. As always, we will be guided by your priorities.What we have learnt in the process of establishing institutions in Africa. This will help us to implement these projects more efficiently.We are very encouraged by the response to our scholarship programme. We will improve it further and also create a more supportive environment to live, study and train in India.I have listen the importance you attach to technology partnership. As in India, we will increase focus on technology to transform the lives of the weakest in the remotest parts of Africa. .We will give high priority to increase trade and investment flows between India and Africa. We will make our trade more balance. We will facilitate Africa’s access to the Indian market. We will ensure full and effective implementation of the duty free access extended to 34 countries.We have excellent defence and security cooperation with many African countries. We have done this bilaterally and through multilateral and regional mechanisms. Closer defence and security cooperation, especially in capability development, will be a key pillar of India-Africa partnership.We will intensify our cooperation against terrorism and rally the world to build a common cause against it.Excellencies, we are conscious of the shadow that falls between an idea and action, between intention and implementation.So, implementation will be as important as starting projects. We will strengthen our monitoring system. This will include a Joint Monitoring Mechanism with African Union.Excellencies, our solidarity and unity can be a major force in the cause of a more inclusive, fair and democratic global order. We are at a decisive moment in charting its course.We should intensify our cooperation and collaboration to seek reforms of the United Nations; achieve our shared goals in global trade; build a global partnership for the Development Agenda 2030; and, pursue our expectation from the Paris Meet on Climate Change.A world shaped in our vision and aspirations will give us each a better chance to succeed.Today, we have adopted the Declaration of this Summit and the Framework for Strategic Cooperation.But, more than numbers and documents, the biggest outcome is our renewed friendships, stronger partnerships and greater solidarity.Excellencies, given the scale of our Summit and the ambitious goals of our partnership, we have jointly agreed that the Summit should be held every five years.However, Africa will remain at the centre of our attention. Our engagement with Africa will remain intense and regular. I hope to see you here on bilateral visits. And, I look forward to visiting all regions of Africa in the years ahead.Finally, I sincerely thank you, your delegations, and other distinguished visitors from Africa, for being here. I hope you enjoyed your stay. Thank you for bringing good weather to Delhi. I hope to see you in Paris for CoP-21 and the Solar Alliance.I thank my ministerial colleagues, our officials and the city of Delhi for making this Summit a great success.As this day ends, our partnership has received new energy and purpose from you today and the World, new confidence in its future.Thank you. Thank you very much.King Mohammed VI of Morocco & PM @narendramodi held wide-ranging discussions on bilateral ties & deeper cooperation pic.twitter.com/5wn3kuuuicIndia cherishes the strong relations with Namibia. PM @narendramodi & President HageG. Geingobmet today. #IAFS pic.twitter.com/HSDttmZy6PA relationship with strong historical foundations & stronger future...President Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi(Egypt) met PM pic.twitter.com/edtR3nrnQcPresident Mohamed OuldAbdel Aziz of Mauritania & PM @narendramodi had a fruitful meeting. @indiafrica2015 #IAFS pic.twitter.com/pkY136qUisThis has been a truly historic day. We had the opportunity to listen to the whole of Africa: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/0OEAPBJ91gAll of us in India have been inspired by your aspirations for your country and Africa: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/0OEAPBJ91gYour friendship and faith is a source of great pride and strength for us: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/0OEAPBJ91gWe will work with you to realize your vision of a prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth, empowered citizens & sustainable dev: PMWe will give high priority to increase trade and investment flows between India and Africa: PM @indiafrica2015 #IAFS https://t.co/0OEAPBJ91gOur engagement with Africa will remain intense and regular. I hope to see you here on bilateral visits: PM @narendramodi @indiafrica2015Dr Ikililou Dhoinine, President of Republic of Union of the Comoros & PM @narendramodi held extensive talks. #IAFS pic.twitter.com/WrYvCs9lljIndia & Somalia towards deeper cooperation...PM @narendramodi & President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoudmeet in New Delhi. pic.twitter.com/NNr6HEoANlThe President of Mali, Mr.Ibrahim BoubacarKeïtadiscussed bilateral ties during his meeting with PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/zgHTVsqZ3IA historic Summit. We got the opportunity to listen to the whole of Africa. My gratitude to African leaders who joined us. @indiafrica2015India-Africa partnership is natural. We want to make our ties more effective. India's engagement with Africa will remain intense & regular.Top priority will be attached to trade & investment. We seek to enhance defence & security cooperation. Education is also a core focus area.India-Africa solidarity can be a major force in the cause of a more inclusive, fair & democratic global order. https://t.co/p0Sv8xl4gO #IAFS
