I have great pleasure in associating myself with the Silver Jubilee Celebrations of the Chandigarh Press Club. Chandigarh is the symbol of a new India, it is the City Beautiful. At the time of its creation, Jawaharlal Nehru declared  "Let Chandigarh be the first large expression of our genius flowering on our newly earned freedom". Representing the indomitable spirit of the people of Punjab and Haryana, the city has symbolized the resurgence of modern India. In keeping with this vibrancy, the media in Punjab has also been at the forefront of journalism in our country. Many of our finest journalists at the national level cut their teeth here in Chandigarh. This city has been a fine training ground for journalists. Today morning, I had the privilege of attending the 125th anniversary celebrations of The Tribune. The Tribune was born in Lahore, but it blossomed here in Chandigarh. It did so because Chandigarh provided the intellectual, social and political environment in which media could freely develop and grow. I salute Chandigarh and the people of Chandigarh. May your city continue to grow as a role model in all walks of life.I would like to pay a special tribute to the media in Punjab, and indeed in neighbouring Jammu & Kashmir, for standing up to the forces of terrorism and anti-national forces and for defending democracy and democratic values. I have always believed in the importance of a free press. It is the ultimate check against the tyranny of authority. As I have often said, I do sincerely believe that there is no grievance, howsoever extreme and desperate, that cannot be redressed through democratic means.  Our democracy gives everyone the right to articulate any  grievance in a democratic manner. However, no civilized society can tolerate violence and extremism. Extremism of any form, based on any divisive ideology, cannot be tolerated in any civilized, democratic society.  Any group that claims to represent the interests of a people must be willing to test its popularity through democratic means and accept the people's verdict. It is through the legislature and in the media that public opinion has to be won over to a cause. Not by killing innocent people. Not by denying media its freedom to purvey news and views. Many journalists have defended the freedom of the press against the tyranny of terrorism, bigotry and sectarianism. They were willing to do this by paying with their lives. I salute the courage of such defenders of democracy. It is the responsibility of media to defend the liberal space, even while giving expression to all opinions. The media must be an instrument for moderation, for a contest of ideas, not a weapon of extremism, communalism and other ideologies of disaffectionLadies and Gentlemen,We are proud of our media and its contribution to shaping public opinion for nation building and social change. The high standards of journalism prevailing in our country, in spite of the commercial pressures on media, testify to the robust traditions of independent journalism. Our free press has emerged as an important  guarantor of democratic and human rights. Our media has given voice to the voiceless. It has ensured that every minority and marginal group is heard, is seen, is involved in the mainstream.Media has been described as the last line of defense for freedom and democracy. Media holds a mirror to society. It constitutes an early warning system. Its assessments on numerous policies alert the nation to the prevailing situation and signal us to be mindful of the future challenges and opportunities. However, with the rapid growth of media in recent times, qualitative development has not kept step with quantitative growth. In the race for capturing markets, journalists have been encouraged to cut corners, to take chances, to hit and run. I believe the time has come for journalists to take stock of how competition has impacted upon quality.Consider the fact that even one mistake, and a resultant accident, can debar an airline pilot from ever pursuing his career. Consider the case that one wrong operation leading to a life lost, and a doctor can no longer inspire the confidence of his patients. One night of sleeping on the job at a railway crossing, an avoidable train accident, and a railwayman gets suspended. How many mistakes must a journalist make, how many wrong stories, how many motivated columns before professional clamps are placed? How does the financial media deal with market moving stories that have no basis in fact? Investors gain and lose, markets rise and fall, but what happens to those reporters, analysts, editors who move and make markets?Are there professional codes of conduct that address these challenges? Is the Press Council the right organization to address these challenges? Can professional organizations of journalists, like the Press Club for example, play a role? I have often heard it said that the Press Club is just a watering hole, a meeting place and nothing more. However, I am impressed by the fact that the Chandigarh Press Club is aspiring to be more. You have built conference facilities, meeting rooms. You can bring these buildings alive by making use of them to reflect, to discuss, to debate among yourselves. Where is media headed? How can you reach global professional standards. Ladies and Gentlemen,	Your club is located in one of the most dynamic and prosperous regions of the country. The region has immense economic potential and it is for us to tap into it. I have stressed the importance of a second wave of development based on industrialisation and service sector growth in my talks yesterday and today. This, I believe, is the path for the future. I am happy to note that the governments of all states around Chandigarh are acutely aware of this need and are working hard to realise this vision.  The granary of India can become the knowledge hub of India. Yesterday, I had a chance to see a presentation on making Punjab a bio-technology hub. We will provide all possible assistance to make this happen. Punjab does need further improvements in infrastructure. I will ask the railways to examine the feasibility of extending the Delhi - Kolkata high speed rail corridor to Amritsar.  We will also examine the proposal for a new airport of international standards at a suitable location in the state. These two initiatives would give a boost to agricultural exports, particularly fruits, flowers and vegetables. As far as roads are concerned, The Amritsar –Jalandhar, Amritsar–Pathankot, Kiratpur - Chandigarh and Ambala –Chandigarh stretches are being taken up under NHP - III. The Ambala-Jalandhar and Ludhiana–Chandigarh stretches are proposed to be 6-laned also.Punjab lacks a central sector thermal power plant. I will ask NTPC to examine the feasibility of a coal based power plant and if this is viable, we will ensure that this materialises soon. Opening up trade and transport with our neighbour Pakistan can provide an additional thrust to the economy here. We will work sincerely towards this end. We will also help PGI to set up new medical departments so that it continues to be in the forefront of medical care. It is necessary for Punjab to attract investment - both domestic and foreign - so that the growth momentum can be regained. The thrust on IT and bio-technology will certainly help. We will provide an enabling environment through investments in infrastructure to make this happen. Ladies and Gentlemen, A Press Club must have an agenda, a larger professional purpose. I was happy to learn that the Chandigarh Press Club had organized the Panj Darya Media Conference in January this year bringing together media personalities from Chandigarh and Lahore. The media can play a positive role in promoting better understanding between nations, between communities, between social groups. Clearly, you have given your Press Club a larger agenda by proposing to build a Media Tower. I hope this will be yet  another modern landmark in the landscape of the city indicating its vibrant and forward-looking character. I wish you well in your programmes.  I am sure that you will succeed in bringing about a significant change in the way the media is perceived in your city. This will inspire your colleagues in other cities to also follow suit. I have great pleasure in congratulating all those associated with the Press Club of Chandigarh on the occasion of its silver jubilee and extending the good wishes for their future success. Thank You.
