Ladies and Gentlemen,Let me, at the outset, extend my heartiest congratulations to the recipients of the President's Police Medals for distinguished service. I commend you for your dedication and devotion to the cause of National Security and effective policing. I would also like to offer my heartfelt condolences to the families of your brave colleagues who sacrificed their lives in the service of the Nation.  I give you my assurance that our government will spare no effort to ensure that their needs are met and their futures secured. As I address you all here today, my mind goes back to some of the key issues I had raised in the same conference last year. I had spoken of the challenges facing the police forces today; of equipping the police forces with the necessary material and intellectual resources to meet these challenges; of the need to generate professionalism, honesty, integrity and efficiency in the police; of the need to improve the public image of the police whereby a policeman can be seen as a friend of the people; of addressing the material needs of policemen, particularly of those at the cutting edge grassroots level; and of reforming the police system so as to make it a more effective and humane organization. Periodic conferences like this are a good occasion to reflect on the progress made in achieving these goals. I had also asked the Home Ministry to quickly examine the recommendations of earlier committees on police reforms and suggest easily implementable measures. I am happy to note that some progress has been made. Ladies and Gentlemen,Police forces across the world continue to face an increasingly complex environment. New security threats have come to the fore, bringing in their wake new challenges. Governments across the world are trying to grapple with them to formulate suitable responses.  In a large, diverse country of continental dimensions undergoing social, economic and political change, your job is even more challenging. At a recent meeting with the Superintendents of Police, I was impressed by the seriousness with which young officers were applying their mind to the problems at hand. I had spoken to them of the changes that have taken place since the Police Act was passed in 1861. Today, police forces have to serve the interests of the people, not rulers. In a democratic framework as we are in today, there is a need to have in the police forces a managerial philosophy, a value system and an ethos in tune with the times.  I had emphasized the need to ensure that police forces at all levels change from a feudal force to a democratic service. The spirit of public service, of respect for the rights of individuals, of being just and humane in one's actions must permeate the entire police force. I was impressed by the response of the young officers to the challenge I had outlined and I am convinced that in them, you have a group of officers who can transform policing in the country. They look up to you for professional leadership. You have to set an example to them, so that they set an example to society. Ladies and Gentlemen, 	What are the key challenges facing the police force today? Clearly, the threat of terrorism and of organized crime are the two most important. But there are other challenges of equal importance to our people. The attacks on weaker sections, on dalits, on minorities, and on women.  Our police force must be equal to the task in dealing with each one of them. We need a combination of force and intelligence in dealing with each of these challenges. In dealing with social and gender based violence, there must be compassion for the victim and firm resolve to deal with the perpetrator of the crime.   I call upon you to devote particular attention to crimes against all vulnerable sections of society such as members of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, women, children and senior citizens. 	With economic progress, some of the fault lines in society have also become wide. This has brought additional responsibility on the police forces to ensure that law and order is maintained and no segment, no matter how meek, is oppressed.  It is true that on account of a variety of factors, the fruits of developments have not reached certain sections of the society. The government is committed to providing equal opportunity to every community and every section of the population.    The police must also be viewed as a fair, efficient and honest service.  The people must have confidence in your  professionalism.  While instilling fear in those breaching the law and threatening the security of the country, the police, at the same time must be perceived as friends by the law abiding common citizens.Ladies and Gentlemen, I have repeatedly said that no grievance, real or imaginary, can justify resort to terror, violence or any other anti-social activity. Democracies provide legitimate means to express dissent and to engage in political activity, and must continue to do so.  However, for this very reason, they cannot afford to be soft on terror. No cause could ever justify the indiscriminate killing of innocent men, women and children.  For several years, India has faced cross-border terrorism, directed against its unity and territorial integrity.  There is no question of any compromise with terror anywhere, be it Jammu & Kashmir or any other part of our nation.	I am aware that you face multi-dimensional security challenges in different regions of our country, including Jammu & Kashmir, the North East and in a large swathe of the hinterland, which is affected by the problem of Left Wing extremism.  Several noteworthy steps by way of conflict resolution have been taken with regard to Jammu & Kashmir and the North East.  Notwithstanding these peace initiatives, the police and security machinery of the country cannot afford to lower their guard.  No group or organization can be allowed to take the law of the land in their own hands and indulge in violence. In this connection, the scenario on the naxalism front remains grim, which would require concerted and comprehensive endeavour on the part of all the agencies involved before the situation can improve. In several parts of the country, there have been increasing instances of public protest against highhandedness of militant and naxalite cadres, which are welcome signs and need to be harnessed as a possible paradigm for dealing with such anti-national elements.I recognise that the problem of naxalism cannot be solved by police action alone. While we do need sustained and effective police action, we have to accelerate socio-economic development of the naxal affected areas. Development programmes of the government are aimed at reducing imbalances between regions and improving the lot of poor people. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act will go a long way in mitigating poverty in many naxal affected areas. The government has also set up a Backward Regions Grant Fund to finance development of backward regions. There is a proposal to provide rights to tribals living in forest villages so that they can have a secure livelihood. The Border Area Development Programme is another programme which has a comprehensive approach to effective border management.  It aims to ensure socio-economic development of the border areas and promote a sense of security among the people living there. 	Apart from investing in social and physical infrastructure in the naxalite and border areas, there is urgent need to improve the quality of governance in these areas. Superior outcomes must reflect the increased outlays in these districts.  Ground level implementation of developmental schemes and programmes must be effective and result oriented. I urge police officials to work hand-in-hand with project directors and Chief Executive Officers of District Rural Development Agencies to ensure this. Ladies and Gentlemen, 	While human rights awareness and sensitivity has grown over the last few decades, their actual application and realization at the ground level has been rather modest.  This is not only the experience of the developing countries like ours, but a clearly recognized problem in the West as well.   The gap between growing awareness and sensitivity vis-ŕ-vis practical application has, therefore, been recognized as the central obstacle in the substantive realization of human rights.  It goes without saying that overcoming such a central hurdle needs a multi-pronged strategy targeting processes and institutions of governance at different levels, and various interest groups in a civil society.    	There should be a system of internal checks and balances to minimize the scope of excess or omission. Prompt corrective and penal action is necessary. This is especially so in relation to the functioning of the police.  The powers of arrest, search, seizure, institution of a criminal case in courts, and so on afford vast scope for misconduct by police personnel and officers. This can and does harm and harass innocent citizens also.  There must be zero tolerance for extra-judicial killings. Apart from positive acts of commission, policemen also cause injury to public by not performing their mandatory duties.  The challenge facing the police have, therefore, changed substantially in recent years. The Technology and  Communications Revolution has fundamentally altered the law and order scenario.  A paradigm change in criminal behaviour has also occurred during this period.  Police methodology must keep pace with these changes. Ladies and Gentlemen,During the last DGP Conference in  2004, I had suggested that a quick review be undertaken of some of the critical recommendations already available on police reforms.  I am happy to learn that the committee set up by the Home Ministry has indicated a road map for those reform measures which would make maximum impact on police effectiveness as well as gain the confidence and trust of the community to whom the police are committed to protect and provide justice. The forty-nine recommendations culled out by this Review Committee are already with the State Governments and I am told that in a meeting of the Chief Secretaries and DGPs from all the States this issue was specially focused by the Union Home Ministry.  I also learn that an Expert Committee of eminent specialists has been set up by the Home Ministry to redraft the Police Act of 1861.  It is indeed a welcome step.  I hope the Expert Committee will submit its report quickly.  I believe many of the recommendations are already being implemented in Union territories. I learn that some of the necessary legislative amendments in the Criminal laws have also been initiated.  I am also informed that a majority of the states are in favour of implementing many of these recommendations.  I wish to re-emphasize the importance of these measures as major steps for good governance and improving the delivery systems for the citizens of this country.  Ladies and Gentlemen, 	The time has come, I believe, for taking some bold decisions.  The Police must begin to think big and think "out-of-the-box'.  This is important if crucial changes in police attitudes are to be effected, and proper direction given towards creation of a modern police force.  I have reviewed the present scheme of grants from the Centre to the States intended for police modernization.  I believe this has not fully achieved the purpose for which this was intended.  There has been, for example, little in the way of real modernization.  Much of the funding under this head has gone to meet the routine requirements of police forces in the different States.  Funds have been used to procure fancy vehicles and gadgets, not always on improving the cutting edge. The scheme has thus become infructuous, as far as gearing the police machinery is concerned for the formidable challenges that lie ahead.   I am, therefore, of the view that we must think afresh and give a new impetus to the modernization programme.	It is my considered view, and I have consistently held this opinion, that our economic programmes and development are wholly contingent upon upholding the rule of law in the country.  The police thus have a very vital role to play  development of the nation.  They must be fully prepared and adequately equipped for the challenges that lie in the future: Newer crimes, such as Economic Crimes and Cyber crimes must merit their attention.  All this would entail a quantum jump in the thinking of, and planning for, the police.  It would also demand a wider comprehension of the nature of the new problems, as also how best to strengthen the technical capabilities of the Police, enhance the quality of their manpower, and improve their training. I am acutely aware of the fact that our police force is in need of increased investment, better training and capacity building. There is need for greater inter-service and inter-State coordination and sharing of criminal intelligence to ensure prompt and swift action	For all of this, I propose to establish a Police Mission which is intended to give the police a new outlook and a new sense of purpose.  The Mission will seek to transform the police forces in the country into effective instruments for maintenance of internal security and facing the challenges of the next century, by equipping them with the necessary material, intellectual and organizational resources. The Mission should be charged with the responsibility of creating a new vision for the Police.  It could decide on a proper time frame in which to accomplish this task.  The Mission would need to pay special attention to empowering the police force at all levels; to appropriate decentralization and delegation of powers; to enhancing the skills and competency levels at the grassroots; to the promotion of a culture of excellence in police organizations; to enhance accountability to the people; to meet new challenges such as asymmetric warfare, new trends in urban unrest and disorder, and new forms of social unrest.	The Mission can also look at providing the police with modern equipment to discharge its current and future responsibilities; a well designed programme for the construction of suitably equipped modern police stations; at meeting at least 80% of the housing needs of the police; at better logistics for the police; at ensuring availability of state-of-the art equipment and upgrading of police communications and technology.  The end result should be the proper empowerment of the police, both in the States and at the Centre, to meet future challenges. I must, however, draw your attention to the prevalent negative public perception in the country with respect to the competence and commitment of our police forces.  I am aware that policing is often considered a thankless and unenviable job.  Policemen, by and large, are overworked and have to be on duty even at a time when others are with their family members.  They spend most festivals away from their loved ones ensuring that peace is maintained.  Despite these sacrifices, the image of the police remains poor, which needs to be dealt with in an effective manner. 	Police should enjoy the respect and the trust of the common citizens. Otherwise, the entire police delivery system would suffer. At the same time, it will not be possible to deal with the complex problems that the nation faces without keeping the morale of the police force high.  It is important to give adequate attention to the basic needs, such as housing and economic security, of the police personnel. Ladies and Gentlemen,	I would like to reiterate once again, that machines are no substitute for men; resources are no substitute for attitudes; and, the quality of human resource is critical to the success of human endeavours. Therefore, while we commit ourselves to improving the physical resources of the police, I charge you to commit yourself to the task of improving and transforming the human resource in the police and making them skilled, competent, just and humane.  Friends, I am confident that our police and security forces under your competent leadership are capable of dealing with these enormous challenges.  I am sure you have paid attention to these issues in your deliberations. I wish you well in all your endeavours. Jai Hind
