President Hollande, Excellencies, industry leaders,Let me begin by once again expressing solidarity with the people of France; And, our deepest admiration being such an outstanding host to the world in a difficult moment.To my long cherished dream of an international alliance of solar-rich countries, President Hollande responded with keen interest and immediate and full offer of support.This is the inaugural day of a defining global conference on climate change.For his support at every step, and his decision to co-chair the launch, I am deeply grateful.Just as positive was his response to the idea of a book of quotations on Nature from the world to remind us all of our timeless wisdom. I am honoured to co-author the preface with him.Since ancient times, different civilizations have given a special place to Sun. In the Indian tradition, Sun is the source of all forms of energy. As Rig Veda says, Sun God is the Soul of all beings, moving and non-moving. Many in India begin their day with a prayer to the Sun.Today, when the energy sources and excesses of our industrial age have put our planet in peril, the world must turn to Sun to power our future.As the developing world lift billions of people into prosperity, our hope for a sustainable planet rests on a bold global initiative.It will mean advanced countries leaving enough carbon space for developing countries to grow. That is natural climate justice.It also means a growth path with lighter carbon footprint.So, convergence between economy, ecology and energy should define our future.The vast majority of humanity is blessed with generous sunlight round the year. Yet, many are also without any source of power.This is why this alliance is so important.We want to bring solar energy into our lives and homes, by making it cheaper, more reliable and easier to connect to grid.We will collaborate on research and innovation. We will share knowledge and exchange best practices.We will cooperate on training and building institutions. We will discuss regulatory issues and promote common standards.We will attract investments in the solar sector, encourage joint ventures and develop innovative financing mechanisms.We will partner with other international initiatives on renewable energy.There is already a revolution in solar energy. Technology is evolving, costs are coming down and grid connectivity is improving.It is making the dream of universal access to clean energy become more real.India has a capacity of 4GW and we have set a target of adding 100 GW of solar power by 2022. By the end of next year, we would have added another 12 GW.I am delighted with the industry response. As you put clean energy within the reach of all, it will create unlimited economic opportunities that will be the foundation of the new economy of this century.This is an alliance that brings together developed and developing countries, governments and industries, laboratories and institutions, in a common enterprise.India will be pleased to host this initiative at the premises of our National Institute of Solar Energy. We will provide land and contribute approximately 30 million U.S. dollars to build the Secretariat infrastructure.We will support operations for five years, and together we will raise long terms funds to achieve our prescribed goals.This day is the sunrise of new hope – not just for clean energy, but for villages and homes still in darkness; and for our mornings and evenings filled with a clear view of the glory of the sun.Thank you.Launch of International Solar Alliance fulfils a long cherished dream. President @fhollande's interest & support has been vital. @COP21My deepest gratitude to all world leaders who joined launch of International Solar Alliance. Mr. Ban Ki-moon made insightful points. #COP21International Solar Alliance brings together developed & developing nations, govts. & industries, labs & institutions in a common enterpriseMy message to the world- let us turn to the Sun to power our future. https://t.co/IEvPZglKGjMy message to the world- let us turn to the Sun to power our future. https://t.co/IEvPZglKGjSince ancient times different civilizations have given a special place to Sun: PM @narendramodi #COP21 @COP21en @India4ClimateIn the Indian tradition Sun is the source of all forms of energy: PM @narendramodi at #COP21 @India4Climate https://t.co/rxjyNOkteXIn the Indian tradition Sun is the source of all forms of energy: PM @narendramodi at #COP21 @India4Climate https://t.co/rxjyNOkteXConvergence between economy, ecology and energy should define our future: PM @narendramodiIndia has capacity of 4GW & we have set a target of adding 100 GW of solar power by 2022: PM @narendramodi at @COP21 @COP21en @India4ClimateThis day is the sunrise of new hope – not just for clean energy, but for villages and homes still in darkness: PM @narendramodi
