"I have come back to Port Blair and to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands a year after the Tsunami tragedy struck these beautiful islands. This was a tragedy of immense proportions in which the lives of thousands of people were lost; a tragedy in which houses, properties, boats and other assets worth crores of rupees was destroyed; a tragedy in which communication links were snapped. In Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the tragedy was compounded by the distances involved and a complete breakdown of economic activities in some places. Almost, 10,000 shelters were destroyed. Our first priority then was the immediate rescue and relief of the affected people and providing succour to those in distress. This we did and everyone rose to the task - the armed forces, the administration, the civil society and even individuals. The next priority was to find out long term solutions - for shelter, for livelihoods, for long term development. I have come to see for myself how things are progressing. Government of India has approved a long term Tsunami rehabilitation programme costing about 2,600 crore. Over the next one and a half day, I will familiarize myself with the progress made so far. The HADDO wharf is an important link for communication and transport. The passenger hall was damaged in the Tsunami. I am told that the passenger terminal proposed to be built is going to have three times the capacity of the earlier damaged one. I hope it becomes the stepping stone for lakhs of passengers and tourists in future, a terminal which will be modern, comfortable and efficient. The other building for which the foundation stone has been laid today is the working women's hostel. It is being built for the benefit of women coming from other islands, seeking work in Port Blair and its surroundings. This is being funded entirely from the PM's National Relief Fund. I will be failing if I do not mention the charity and large-heartedness of millions of fellow countrymen who opened their purse-strings and donated liberally for the PM National Relief Fund. We have put a large number of focusssed activities in place funded from the PM National Relief Fund for the benefit of the Tsunami affected. I hope this hostel which is one of the activities being financed, goes a long way in solving the problems of the islands. Representatives of civil society in these Islands must have a larger role in the management of the Islands affairs. I wish you all success."
