I am truly delighted to be here to inaugurate the India Expo Centre & Mart. This is yet another landmark in the rapidly developing landscape of Greater Noida. I am truly impressed by the growth of modern amenities and infrastructure in this western part of Uttar Pradesh. I hope that the development potential of this region will be fully exploited by the nation in general and Uttar Pradesh in particular, so that the State and our nation will move rapidly on the path of development and modernization.The opening of the India Expo Centre & Mart should mark an important milestone in the rejuvenation of our textile, garments, handlooms and handicrafts industry. Our textile industry is capable of regaining its glorious position as one of the world's most creative and competitive industries.  And, as is well known, our craftsmen are the inheritors of a unique tradition of artisanal ability and excellence.After Independence, despite our comparative advantage in the textiles sector, we missed the opportunity afforded by growing global demand. Our rigid domestic laws, complex rules, regulations and excessive controls inhibited the growth of an internationally competitive industry. We were overtaken in the world market by other textile exporting economies of Asia. In 1948 India was the largest exporter of textiles this side of Suez. And where are we today? Sadly, we must recognize that we lost many opportunities.Today, however, we are on the threshold of a new era. A new renewal, afforded by the withering away of the Multi-fiber Agreement, beckons to our textile sector. Major markets such as the United States and the European Union are increasingly opening to Indian products. New opportunities are presenting themselves globally.  Most importantly, in this age of environment sensitivity and mass manufacture, a high premium is being placed on handicraft products.  The wares produced by our artisans are seen as unique, exclusive and environment-friendly.  This is an edge that we must actively utilize.  There is also a social imperative that should inspire us in this effort, given the employment generating potential of the textiles sector in general and the handicrafts sector in particular. We have a chance to retrieve the lost ground, but we need sensible policies if we are to succeed in doing that. It is with this perspective that our Government is approaching the task of ensuring that our traditional crafts do not die due to neglect.   We have historically been blessed by a pool of talented craftsmen and today, by a growing and sophisticated world market for our products.   However, what is lacking is the required marketing and trade infrastructure, brand-building and quality assurance. I hope the various organizations of Government, in New Delhi and in our States, will rise to the occasion to offer the support needed to give a new boost to our traditional and modern textiles sector.I would also add that we must simultaneously safeguard what we already have. It is a fact that with the emergence of a new high-end market for our handlooms and handicrafts, we face a growing threat from those who seek to imitate our designs and methods. We must evolve strategies to guard against piracy. Both Government and business should work together to protect the intellectual property of our weavers, our artisans and our designers in the way that the developed world protects its products. Ladies and Gentlemen:I therefore hope that apart from showcasing our textiles, garments and handicrafts, this Expo Centre will emerge as an exhibition center for other Indian manufactures as well. The success of our auto expo, reflecting the emergence of a globally competitive automobile and components industry, shows that such expositions can help strengthen the "Made in India" label.  This is particularly important as Pragati Maidan becomes more crowded and therefore more difficult for guests to visit. Perhaps this center can eventually emerge as an alternative venue for national and international exhibitions. In conclusion, I am happy to learn that this project has been completed, like Phase One of the Delhi Metro, within the specified target date. This is a new trend we are setting in our country where time and cost overruns had become a tragic joke. There is a new determination among project managers to complete projects ahead of time. I welcome this trend. We must take pride in doing things on time and within planned budgets.I compliment all those associated with this project. I wish this Expo Centre and Mart great success in all its endeavours in the years to come. Jai Hind.
