My Dear Children,	I am truly delighted to welcome all of you to my house. Today is a very special day for all of us. We are here to recognize the bravery of some of our young friends. Bravery shown in the face of adversity. Bravery shown in an unexpected moment. Bravery that was spontaneous. Bravery that was truly inspiring. I compliment them. I feel proud of them. I salute them.	But I know that for every one child whose bravery we reward today, there are many, many more across our vast land who have shown bravery, courage and honesty in their own way, in their daily lives.  	Day after tomorrow we celebrate our Republic Day.  It is a day on which we recall the great sacrifice of our forefathers and our freedom fighters. They gave their lives so that we can be free today. So I want each one of you to remember that your bravery today will not go in vain. It is never wasted. Future generations will thank you, because the good that you do lives beyond you.	There are many aspects to bravery. Bravery is not just about fighting bad people. Bravery is not just about saving a person. Bravery is also about telling the truth and facing the consequences of doing so. Bravery is about working hard to be able to stand on your own feet. Every honest child is a brave child. Every hard working child is a brave child. Every child who is good in sports is a brave child. Every child who can show others the right path is a brave child. In the world we live, simple honesty can also be an act of great bravery. Many times we are tempted to do wrong things. Many times we are tempted to tell lies. Many times we are tempted to be lazy and make others work for us. But, when we resist such temptations, we are being brave. It takes courage to be honest, diligent and self-reliant. The leaders of our freedom movement, like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and many, many more, showed that India had the courage to stand on its own feet. That India had the courage to be self-reliant. That India had the courage to be Independent. It is their courage that shaped our nation. It is your courage that will shape our future. Be bold, be courageous, be creative, be enterprising, be adventurous. Be brave.I wish you all a bright and happy future. Jai Hind!
