Vannakkam! I am truly happy to be back here with the people of Tamil Nadu today. I extend my greetings to the people of this great state. Tamil Nadu has a pride of place in our great country and occupies a very important position in our Government. I always keep track of your welfare and progress through the many colleagues I have in my Government from your State. Never before have so many leaders of Tamil Nadu held such high positions in the Government of India at the same time. I have great regard for the good work that my colleagues from Tamil Nadu are doing for the welfare of this state.I am indeed very happy to be here to inaugurate the Golden Jubilee Celebrations of the Neyveli Lignite Corporation. This great undertaking is a tribute to our beloved leader, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, who launched it in 1956. True to Panditji's vision, it has grown manifold and has significantly contributed to the industrial and economic growth of Tamil Nadu. Neyveli is one of the many "Temples of Modern India" that Panditji gave our country. It is our effort to see that in this Golden Jubilee Year, Neyveli goes on to achieve greater heights of excellence. I am happy to mark this anniversary by inaugurating a new expansion programme.  We are expanding the mine capacity and also the capacity of the Thermal Power Station. This involves a massive investment of Rs.4,200 crore. This new investment will benefit the people of Tamil Nadu and of this entire region. 	I compliment the planners of this project for bringing new technology to make it efficient and environment friendly. I am also happy that you are making sure that the coal mining here goes along with continuous refilling and reclamation of the mined area and restoration of the fertility of the land. This is necessary and we must ensure that attention is paid to it. Mankind must give back to nature more than what we take from it. Coal and energy are the gift of nature to us. But taking care of the fertility of our soil, taking care of our environment, taking care of our forests and fields is our gift to nature and to future generations. I appreciate the efforts taken by Neyveli Lignite Corporation to preserve the environment in and around Neyveli. I am glad to note that this Company has ensured total green cover over Neyveli.  	India has to depend on coal and lignite for most of its commercial energy requirement, for many years to come. Tamil Nadu has been blessed with an abundant supply of lignite, almost 80% of the country's total reserves. Since this region is far away from the coal belt, it is essential that lignite reserves are effectively used to meet energy needs in the south. The Neyveli Lignite Corporation has done good work in generating power at the pithead. I compliment the management as well as the work force of the company for the good results shown consistently. You must continue to work hard, ensure even higher productivity and cost efficiency. You are all our soldiers in our march for economic progress and welfare.  Each one of you is a nation builder. Each one of you can contribute to the future of our country. Electricity is a basic human need. Hence, our government is committed to ensuring that every village in India is electrified through the Rajiv Gandhi Gramin Vidyutikaran Yojana. Ladies and Gentlemen,The UPA government is committed to the rapid development of Tamil Nadu. We are also conscious of the great history of the Tamil people. Your language Tamil, rivals Sanskrit in antiquity and in its beauty. Our Government is proud of the fact that we have restored to Tamil its ancient glory by recognizing it as a Classical Language of great antiquity on par with Sanskrit. We are committed to the full development of this great language of a great people. We have also fulfilled an age old dream of the Tamil people by sanctioning and beginning work on the Sethusamudram Project. Sethusamudram will reduce the travel time between the East and West coasts of India. It would lead to the all round development of the coastal areas of Tamil Nadu. In the social sector too, we have made remarkable progress. Your young dynamic minister, Dr Anbumani Ramadoss has been doing exemplary work in health. The National Rural Health Mission will ensure in a few years that we will be able to provide basic health care facilities to our rural people. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act will ensure that no one willing to do work will go hungry. It is a revolutionary step towards eradicating poverty. It will be implemented through our panchayat system. And under Bharat Nirman, we will provide a connecting road, a telephone, safe drinking water and electricity in every village in 4 years. I am confident that the way we are managing the economy and with all the steps we are taking for development, we will be in a position to eradicate poverty within a decade. Our government is committed to this goal and no stone will be left unturned to achieve this. Ladies and Gentlemen, Our Government's National Common Minimum Programme has made a commitment to ensure that the economy grows by 7- 8% per year over the next decade and more. We will ensure that this growth generates more employment and will ensure development of backward areas and weaker sections. Power is a crucial infrastructure for socio economic development.  Supply of quality power at reasonable rates will make it affordable to the rural population and make our industries competitive. Therefore, the Common Minimum Programme of the United Progressive Alliance attaches the highest priority to the development and expansion of basic infrastructure including power. Our Government is making all out efforts to improve generation, transmission and distribution of electricity so that each and every household in the country will have access to it. This is a national priority. I greet you all on this happy occasion. I salute the people of Tamil Nadu. Thank you for your kind and generous hospitality. And I hope the next 50 years of Neyveli are even more glorious. Jai Hind!
