"I am delighted to be here on this joyful occasion to inaugurate the cultural festival of the North-Eastern states - Octave. I have no doubt that this Octavian note symbolizes a deep emotional harmony. I have no doubt that in the years to come, this Festival will become an important and prestigious cultural event in our nation's calendar. It should gain international attention and attract tourists from all over the world. Holding this event on a fixed date, with a programme announced early enough, will certainly benefit tourists to include this event in their itinerary. I compliment the Department of Culture and the various organisations involved for their imaginative design of the Festival's programme. Art forms, craft traditions, handlooms, lifestyles and belief systems take long years to evolve. The dance and music of a people encrypt within them the joys and jubilations of generations and hold the imprints of their social, political and cultural history. It is the hopes and dreams of our ancestors that are transmitted over centuries through these art forms. Of course artistes of every generation reinterpret them and rediscover their eternal relevance. Keeping them alive is therefore a magnificent form of paying homage to our ancestors and to our heritage. The contributions of artistes and performers have to be viewed in this context. For, without them and their dedication, there will be a disconnect with the past. It is our heritage that shapes our distinctiveness. It is the recognition of and respect for this diversity that gives Indian democracy its plural character and strength as well as resilience. Our Republic has provided the space for our diversity to blossom and flower and be expressed in its fullness. We are a nation proud of our variety and sure of our unity. The states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Nagaland, and Sikkim have their own individual cultural traditions and rich creative expressions. There is no better way to safeguard them, than providing opportunities for performance and ensuring favourable economic conditions for the artistes and craftsmen who keep these traditions alive. I do believe that economic development takes place in a given social and cultural environment. Therefore an appreciation of the cultural milieu is important in our development efforts. The commendable steps taken by the Ministry of Tourism and Culture have, therefore, a special significance for all of us. This Festival is significant not only because it showcases the vibrant culture of a very beautiful part of our country, but also because it brings out the beauty of our unity in diversity. Cultural diversity is as important to a society as biological diversity. Our commitment to the preservation of both is total. We have a responsibility to pass on our inherited culture in all its richness and variety to our future generations. Imagine a tomorrow where all these forms of vibrant dance and music are only remembered as past glory. We should be ashamed of such a bleak tomorrow and we shall not allow such a situation to occur. On the other hand our efforts should be to create a favourable environment for the cultural traditions and practices to flourish. In our march towards progress and prosperity, our cultural riches are national assets that make us proud, beautiful and connected. We should encourage our youth to keep these skills and creativity alive and robust. We then ensure the survival of our handicrafts, our handlooms, our traditional art, our dance forms and our music. Through our collective commitment to these core cultural values, let us make a thousand orchids bloom in the valleys of these fascinating states. I compliment the Ministry of Culture & Tourism and the Hon'ble Minister Smt. Ambika Soni for organizing this event, and I wish OCTAVE 2006 all success. "
