"I have great pleasure in attending the 21st Raising Day of the Special Protection Group. This day we celebrate the evolution of SPG as a professionally competent and dedicated organization. I greet all ranks and their families of this elite force. I congratulate all officers and personnel who have won medals and trophies in recognition of meritorious services. We are all aware of the extremely tragic circumstances which led to the formation of the SPG. Many of us would remember the sense of shock and distress when the authority and might of our Republic was challenged by the assassination of our revered Prime Minister, Indiraji. This grievous wound on our nation and body politic made us resolve to avoid such terrible incidents. The security and safety of the top leadership of the country became the foremost concern of the nation. In our quest to address one of the most challenging issues of our time, we created the SPG. Nearly two decades on, I think it is fair to say that the SPG has lived up to the high expectations that the nation has reposed in it. It is a matter of great satisfaction for all of us to recognize that our country is justly proud of having a committed and well-trained force exclusively for the safety and security of the political leadership at the highest level. The distinguished record of service of the SPG amply testifies to the vision of those who established this extraordinary organization. My personal association with the officers and men of the SPG dates back nearly two years, during which we have interacted at close quarters. I have no hesitation in placing on record my gratitude and appreciation for their dedication, commitment and for their extraordinary levels of professionalism. While discharging its duties, the SPG also often operates in close coordination with the police forces of the States and Union Territories and also our paramilitary forces. The SPG also often operates in close coordination with foreign security agencies to ensure adequate security to VVIPs while they are abroad. All this demands a high degree of professionalism, skill and an awareness of modern technology. I am happy to note that the SPG has come out with flying colours in performing its duties. The highly interesting and informative documentary on VIP amply illustrates your skill and competence. I compliment the Director and all ranks for their outstanding performance. I am sure that the other SPG protectees present here share my sentiments. We also share a deep sense of gratitude for the fact that your personnel place their duty over their own comfort and convenience. It is reflective of a high sense of professionalism, dedication and devotion to duty. No leader in a democratic society would like to be seen as a remote and formidable figure, isolated by a ring of impenetrable security. To protect leaders and at the same time to enable them to be accessible to the general public requires skill and dexterity of the highest order in the provision of security services. Indeed, the SPG has no alternative but to be an interface between political leaders and the people. The way you deal with people, therefore, has a bearing on how the people view your protectees. For you to do your job without compromising security makes your task delicate and occasionally unpleasant. I am sensitive of this delicate balancing act that makes your work very special. Therefore, while fine-tuning your protection skills, you must also continually refine your ability to deal with the public to ensure that their levels of hardship and inconvenience are minimized. I am conscious that you sometimes face criticisms and even wrathful comments. I urge you take these in your stride as a professional hazard and as an additional area warranting your attention. You must mentally attune yourselves to treat such incidents as an integral part of your day-to-day functioning. At the same time, you must remember that your protectees recognize the invaluable role you play by leaving no stone unturned to ensure our safety. I recognize these difficulties and constraints and I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your selfless service. I am happy to note that a series of important measures are being taken to augment the professional abilities of the SPG. The acquisition of a new weapon systems and the modernization of your firing range, I am told, would materialize in the near future. The acquisition of a new communication system, the establishment of a state-of-the-art Human Performance Centre, and your training in martial arts would collectively enable the SPG to raise its formidable skills further to face new and more daunting challenges in future. The art of modern security management lies in the low visibility of the security provider, combined with high technical competence and state-of-the-art technological support. Our nation is conscious of the fact that our security agencies function against very heavy odds. The threat of terrorism and the danger emanating from subversive and fundamentalist forces pose huge challenges to our body politic. I assure you that our Government will do all that is required to meet the needs of the SPG and all our security forces. After all, morale and motivation constitute the first step in addressing any challenge. We will do everything possible to keep your morale and spirits high. The celebration of the Raising Day is a very happy occasion. Let me conclude at this point to enable all of you to enjoy the gala celebrations you have planned. I once again extend my sincere greetings and good wishes to all members of the SPG family."
