"Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh today reaffirmed the Strategic Partnership of Germany and India. Building upon the 'Agenda for the Indo-German Partnership in the 21st Century', which both countries adopted in the year 2000, Germany and India will deepen their strategic partnership based on shared democratic values and basic common interests. The Indo-German Strategic Partnership has seen cooperation intensifying across the board, including on the G4 initiative relating to the reform of the United Nations Security Council. Both sides agree to continue cooperation bilaterally and in the framework of G4 for the strengthening of the multilateral system and a reform of the United Nations, including the reform of the UN Security Council. Trade, investment, scientific and technological collaboration, including in the areas of infrastructure, energy and high technology areas such as space, form an important basis for the partnership. Both sides aim to further deepen their strategic and security dialogue and will work towards an agreement on bilateral defence co-operation. Economic and trade relations between Germany and India have flourished in recent years. India's participation as the Partner Country in this year's Hannover Messe reflects the growing interest in India as a global economic partner and offers an excellent opportunity to intensify bilateral economic ties. Infrastructure and Energy provide major areas of deepening engagement between the two countries. The Indo-German Joint Commission on Industrial and Economic Cooperation will continue to focus on specific areas of cooperation for mutual benefit. Both sides note with satisfaction that bilateral trade is growing rapidly and that the target of doubling the trade within five years, which was set at the previous Summit meeting in New Delhi in October 2004 is likely to be achieved much earlier. Both sides recognize the significant role of the small and medium enterprises in further promoting the trade, investment and technology links and agree to facilitate intensification of linkages of such enterprises. They also note with appreciation, the contribution of the Indo-German Chamber of Commerce, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year, to promote economic cooperation between the two countries. They welcome the opening of a German Trade Office in Bangalore, which will further promote German trade and investment in India. They also welcome the growing trend of Indian investments in Germany. In this context both sides commend the work of the Indo-German Consultative Group and welcome their recommendations for a further strengthening of our overall relationship including our economic and trade ties. Both sides acknowledge the valuable contributions of Indo-German development cooperation in wide-ranging areas including energy, environmental policy, sustainable economic development, health and vocational training. The establishment of an Indo-German Energy Forum at Senior Officials level and including the private sector highlights the importance accorded by both countries to cooperate in this sector. The Energy Forum will address strategic energy concerns including energy security, efficient use of energy, promotion of renewable energy sources and environmentally friendly technologies, taking into account the environmental challenges of sustainable development. The two sides also take note of the satisfactory progress being made with regard to cooperation between the EU and India in the energy sector and the fact that the India-EU Joint Action Plan finalized in September 2005 at the 6th EU-India Summit in New Delhi, provides for cooperation on achieving safe, secure, affordable and sustainable energy supplies. India's participation in the ITER initiative on fusion energy is an important part of the ongoing energy cooperation. Germany and India have established a long and fruitful cooperation in Science and Technology. The Indo-German Science Circle has given new impetus to this cooperation and will further strengthen contacts between scientific and academic communities. Both sides expect that the newly established office of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft in New Delhi will further add to the close network of institutions between our two countries. Both sides will work towards setting up an Indo-German Science, Research and Technology Centre at an early date. The Indian Council for Medical Research and the Helmholtz Association of German research centers are signing an MoU on Research Cooperation in the field of biomedical sciences. Germany will place special emphasis on cooperation in Science and Technology between Germany and India during its Presidency of the European Union. Both sides will work towards jointly organizing a Ministerial Conference on Science and Technology in the first half of 2007. Both sides take note of the ongoing bilateral cooperation in the space sector including in the Chandrayaan project. India's participation in the Global navigation Satellite System (GALILEO) will be an important contribution to such cooperation. Both sides agree to continue close cooperation in the fight against terrorism, both through the regular bilateral consultations and cooperation in the multilateral context. In particular, they will continue cooperating in pursuing agreement in the UN on the Comprehensive Convention against International Terrorism. The two sides have also agreed to start negotiations on a Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters aiming at early conclusion of such negotiations. Both sides agree to actively promote our traditionally close cultural cooperation. India's participation as the focus country in the Bonn Biennial Art Festival in May and as the Guest of Honour Country in this year's Frankfurt Book fair are important events to further deepen our cultural ties. They welcome the decision of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations to set up five rotating Chairs on Contemporary Indian Studies in various German universities."
