"I am very happy to be here this afternoon to be with you. It gives me great pleasure to interact with people who are doing so much to reinforce the friendly relations that exist between India and Uzbekistan. Indians abroad have achieved remarkable success and have earned goodwill for their country. With your professionalism, sincerity, hard work and competence you have made India synonymous with quality and dependability particularly in the context of high technology areas. India recognizes the significant contribution being made by non-resident and overseas Indians in the development of our own economy and commerce. Acknowledging the importance of your work and to address your specific requirements, one of the first decisions of my Government was to set up the Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs to address the concerns of the Indian diaspora. We have taken several initiatives which have found a positive resonance amongst Indians abroad. The scheme of dual nationality is now operational. The Ministries concerned are constantly looking at simplifying procedures in insurance, investment, purchase of property etc. for Indians residing abroad. I am happy that the Government of Uzbekistan has offered our nationals a congenial working environment. I had very productive discussions with President Islam Karimov this morning. The relations between our two countries are very close and historic. By your own every day interaction with your Uzbek colleagues, you also contribute in cementing these ties. For a long time, Tashkent has been a centre of studies of our languages and history. Many prominent scholars who have dedicated their lives to study and research about India are here today, and I convey my sincerest tribute to them for their sustained efforts to build links between the academics and institutions of our two countries. The Tashkent State Institute of Oriental Studies has important programmes of studies and research on subjects related to our country. Recognising their valuable contribution, I am pleased to announce that we will assist in the creation of a Centre of Indian Studies at the Institute of Oriental Studies which, I propose, may be named after Mahatma Gandhi. I also take this opportunity to invite you to come to India and to build linkages with Indian academic and research institutions which will make a lasting contribution to our relationship. Friends, I wish you success in your activities and I hope that your bonds with India will continue to be strong and productive."
