"I am delighted to extend my hearty congratulations to the eminent winners of the Kabir Puraskar and the National Communal Harmony Awards. Shri Mohd. Aynal Hoque, Shri K. Rajarathnam Isaac, Miss Hema Bharali, and the Ramakrishna Mission, Kolkata, are all shining examples of communal harmony and co-existence of diverse faiths of our ancient land. Harmony between humans and nature, between communities and peoples is the very basis of civilized existence. This idea is as much a product of our ancient wisdom as it is the basis of our noble Constitution. Both the Kabir Puraskar and the National Communal Harmony Awards honour this age old tradition. They recognize the contributions of individuals and institutions who defend and enrich this defining aspect of our nationhood. The Kabir Pursakar recalls the finest traditions of Sant Kabir's life represented by love and compassion for all and reverence for all creeds. Shri Isaac, one of the recipients of the Kabir Puraskar, is not just a scholar, but someone who has displayed exemplary physical and moral courage in persuading an angry mob to avoid violence. His bravery in defusing tension at the risk of his life prevented a major communal clash in Andhra Pradesh and saved precious lives. Shri Hoque showed equally exemplary courage in defusing tensions between ethnic groups in Assam. Such people are the repositories of our shared values. In fact, during our freedom struggle, Mahatma Gandhi had urged people to restore peace by personally intervening in situations marked by communal violence and ethnic conflict. Following his advice, when Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi went to quell communal violence and died, Gandhiji described his supreme sacrifice as a glorious event. Shri Isaac and Shri Hoque, by personally intervening and diffusing tension between two groups of our own citizens, were following both Kabir's and Mahatma Gandhi's shining example. The way Shri Isaac restored religious harmony by appealing to the good sense of both communities testified to his deep commitment to our secular values. He and Shri Md. Aynal Hoque represent the quintessential common people who are the bulwarks of our millennial old tradition of humanism, tolerance and peaceful co- existence. The National Communal Harmony Awards are being conferred on an historic institution, the Ramakrishna Mission, and an outstanding Gandhian, Ms. Hema Bharali. The Ramakrishna Mission is a magnificent example of an organization promoting spiritual and communal harmony in the world. Addressing the World Parliament of Religions in 1893, Swami Vivekananda cautioned mankind against fanaticism and bigotry and spoke of the essential unity of all religions. The Ramakrishna Mission is an outstanding example of spiritualism serving the needs of society. By serving people of all castes, creeds and linguistic groups, the Mission has underlined the oneness of all humanity. It has rendered valuable services to people affected by communal riots and natural calamities. It is in consonance with the teaching and Karma Yoga of Swami Ramakrishna and Vivekananda. They accorded priority to service to humanity over dogma and ritualism. I am truly delighted that we are today honouring Ms. Hema Bharali, a well known Gandhian from Assam and a prominent freedom fighter. Her contribution to rural development, education, women's emancipation, removal of social discrimination and national integration have contributed immensely to the cause of communal harmony. She has dedicated her life to serve society and unite people on the common values of our nation. I am sure that these awards will inspire all those in the forefront of safeguarding our common heritage and tradition of tolerance, respect for diversity and fundamental unity of all human being. I once again congratulate the awardees and wish them all success."
