	"Two years ago the people of our country gave a clear mandate in favour of change. They voted out the politics of divisiveness. They voted out the economics of inequity. They voted out a government that had lost touch with our people.
	 
	In its place, the people of India voted in a government that cares. Their mandate was for a politics of inclusiveness and an economics of equity combined with efficiency. Their mandate was for the re-articulation of the ideas and ideals that shaped our freedom struggle.
	 
	The United Progressive Alliance came together under the inspiring leadership of Soniaji, joined hands with Left Parties, and committed itself to a programme of development, and a programme of empowerment of our people, particularly marginalized sections of community. We remain committed to our bold vision of building a more equitable society, a more efficient economy and a more capable nation.
	 
	When we came to power we inherited a fractured polity. I do believe that we have been able to handle internal security issues effectively and with greater sensitivity. The communal situation shows marked improvement. Social and caste violence are on decline. Better appreciation exists today of the dimensions of the Naxalite problem. We are adopting a two-pronged policy of combining effective police response with a focus on reducing and eliminating deprivation and the sense of alienation, especially among our tribal brethren. However, terrorism continues to pose a threat to our cohesiveness and national integrity and we will not compromise in our resolve to face it with courage, conviction and determination. There should be no doubt whatsoever on this matter.
	 
	In the past two years, our Government has been able to implement a large number of the commitments made in the National Common Minimum Programme. Our Government under the guidance of Smt. Sonia Gandhi has launched some of the most ambitious programmes of development and empowerment.
	 
	The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act is a historic commitment to the people. For the first time the Government has legally guaranteed minimum employment at a minimum wage, creating a social safety net for the rural poor. In enacting this legislation we have shown the world a way forward how to deal with the distress of extreme poverty.
	 
	To fulfill our mandate to build a more inclusive society we have launched several innovative programmes. The Report To The People that we have published today gives a comprehensive account of all our initiatives. I urge each of our Members of Parliament, Members of State Legislatures, UPA party functionaries and all our supporters to read this Report To The People. I request you to familiarise yourself with what we have done. I request you to communicate this information to the people at large.
	 
	The many initiatives we have taken must be properly implemented. Such as Bharat Nirman, the National Rural Health Mission, the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, the expanded Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and the nation-wide Mid-Day Meal programme together with the ICDS programme. The successful implementation of each of these programmes requires the active participation of all UPA party functionaries, at all levels. We must collectively ensure that higher outlays translate into better outcomes.
	 
	I do recognize that we need to do a lot more to bring prosperity to our rural areas. Our farmers do require a more determined action to solve their problems. We have steeply increased credit availability for farmers, and have made farm credit more affordable by reducing interest rates. We have increased investment in agricultural research, and are reviving the Krishi Vigyan Kendras all over the country. We have increased investment in irrigation, especially micro irrigation. We are paying special attention to renewing water bodies and to watershed development. We are creating a National Rainfed Area Authority. We have increased substantially outlays for infrastructure development, especially those relating to rural infrastructure. We will work on all fronts to ensure that our farmers do share effectively in our nation's prosperity.
	 
	The Government has also empowered the ordinary citizen and ensured greater transparency in government by enacting the Right to Information Act. It is one of the most progressive pieces of social legislation in the world. I hope it will ensure better governance and make our Government more accountable to our people.
	 
	We have also taken several measures to empower - both socially and economically - Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, all Minorities and Women. We have increased the investment in their capabilities. We have enhanced their rights. We are committed to ensuring that every citizen of our country lives a life of self-respect and dignity. We are deeply committed to the well being and empowerment of our women and children and have changed a number of our laws to make women feel genuinely empowered and more secure.
	 
	Our youth are our greatest asset. When empowered with capabilities they can help build a stronger and a more dynamic India. We have to fulfill the aspirations of all our young people. We have to work to protect the legitimate interests of all students. We will provide educational opportunities for all our children. We will pay special attention to the needs of socially backward classes, while ensuring that no deserving student is denied an opportunity to secure education.
	 
	There shall be no ambiguity in our commitment to work assiduously for the well being of all sections of our society. I request all those who are agitating on the quota issue to call of their agitation and have faith in our Government to protect the legitimate interests of all sections of our student community. The government is convinced of the need to have a fair, just and inclusive education system where every section of society feels that there is scope for their youth to acquire knowledge and skills as per their needs and become genuine partners in the progress of our great nation.
	 
	Another important endeavour of our Government has been to improve our relations with all our neighbours and all our partners. I say with all sincerity that our Government has significantly improved the external environment for India's development and progress. Our many initiatives have strengthened India's external profile and have improved our standing in the world. Our relations with our neighbours, with all major powers and all our economic partners have improved considerably in the past two years. The international and regional environment is today more conducive to our economic development and national security than ever before.
	 
	The world wants India to do well. Our challenges are mostly at home. We have many miles to walk to fulfill the aspirations of our people. We have long days of work to deliver on all our promises. I do hope we can work together as a nation, setting aside our differences, to build a strong and capable India. The world respects us because we are an open society and an open economy, seeking our salvation as a functioning democracy with an abiding commitment to respect fundamental human rights and the rule of law.
	 
	However, we owe it to our people that we widen the choices available to them. We have to build a more caring, yet competitive, economy. We have to offer a more transparent, honest and efficient government. We have to reform our judiciary. Our legislatures, our panchayats, our municipalities must be made more result oriented, more people-oriented.
	 
	I assure you that we will stay the course. We will ensure that we maintain fiscal discipline and manage our resources with care. No Government can spend its way to prosperity. It must be recognized that despite the economic pressure of high international oil prices, we have moderated its inflationary impact. However, we cannot continue to subsidise energy consumption on this scale. Our economy has been doing reasonably well these past two years. To sustain and increase the growth rate and find resources to support the poor, we have to manage our finances with wisdom and with foresight.
	 
	I urge you all to re-dedicate yourself to this task of nation building. Running a government is not difficult. Building a nation certainly is. This is what our people expect of us. We must never fail them. Under Soniaji's distinguished guidance and with the co-operation of senior leaders of the UPA and our left allies, we shall redeem our pledges to our people."
	 
