Introductionˇ	I am happy to be in your midst today at the end of your deliberations on improving public service delivery and implementation of national programmes.ˇ	As Chief Secretaries, you have a challenging role to play - in both setting the macro and policy framework to enable rapid economic development and in guiding the lower levels of government in achieving the policy objectives.Good Governanceˇ	I understand that yesterday, your conference focused on improving good governance which is central to the development process. ˇ	While the central government manages the overall macro-economic and policy framework, the responsibility for delivering services to the people rests on state governments. It is in this context that good governance becomes extremely relevant in that any initiative at a national level is contingent upon an efficient and effective governance system at states and local levels to be effective. ˇ	All public services are paid for by citizens and it is our collective responsibility to deliver these in an efficient, cost effective manner. ˇ	Good governance is even more relevant at the level of local bodies. They are often the cutting edge level and we need to focus on improving their capabilities. Red tapeˇ	A key problem faced by citizens when they interact with any government organization is red tape - whether it be cumbersome procedures, complicated forms, inordinate delays and most importantly, an insensitive and unconcerned staff. This is true irrespective of the organization which a citizen has to deal with - the public health system, the public education system, the tax system, the public utilities or the police machinery. It should be your endeavour to ensure that any interface with the public becomes is a pleasant one. This requires both procedural and attitudinal change. And you can play a leadership role in achieving this. ˇ	There are a large number of options available for cutting down red tape - simplification of transactions, strengthening accountability, using IT and e-governance tools, and promoting behavioural change in government employees. It is possible through a judicious use of these options to attain the desired objectives. There are good examples in government itself where this has been done effectively and there is scope for learning from each other in this.Right to Informationˇ	An important legal provision to promote accountability and consequently promote attitudinal change is the Right to Information Act. This act, by promoting transparency, can be a vital instrument for cutting down corruption and ensuring that goals set for improved public service delivery can be met. In a democratic framework, nothing works like popular expectation and public pressure. In the final analysis, this is the best instrument for enforcing behavioural change. You have to see this act in the right spirit, as an aid to good governance and utilize it for transforming your governments into citizen friendly bodies. Implementation of Development Programmesˇ	There is one issue which is of vital concern to me. In the last few years, we have begun a large number of key development programmes. All these are extensive in their size and scope and have the capacity to alter our rural and urban landscapes. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme, the National Rural Health Mission, the expanded Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, the Mid day Meal Programme, the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. The volume of funds flowing to states today is higher than ever before in the past. ˇ	It is therefore necessary that these funds get translated into outcomes. You will have to think of new approaches and possibly innovative structures for ensuring that your states benefit from these programmes.Internal securityˇ	This brings to me to an issue which is of immediate relevance and urgency. There can be no development and progress in the absence of law and order and public security. It is the primary responsibility of the state to maintain public order and ensure the safety of its citizens. All other responsibilities come subsequently. ˇ	In this context, I would like to highlight the threats that are there to our internal security. We face the challenge of terrorism and naxalism in many parts of the country. I have said in the past that naxalism is probably the single biggest challenge we have ever faced to our internal security. The recent incidents of terrorism in Mumbai and Kashmir have brought out the extent of penetration of terrorist elements. We cannot allow them to succeed and get away with their crimes.ˇ	We need to gear ourselves up to meet these challenges. Business cannot be carried on as usual. We must recognize that past responses are inadequate in dealing with these problems which are of a different intensity, magnitude, scale and scope. ˇ	We need to marshal all our resources, utilize all available technologies and  improve the capabilities of our manpower in meeting these challenges. These threats have to be met firmly, with determination and with a will to destroy them. You will have to empower your police forces to be able to discharge their functions at higher levels of efficiency. You will have to show the necessary leadership in this regard.While we in Delhi will support you in all your efforts, you have to gear up your machinery to meet these challenges. Valuesˇ	To conclude, I will urge you to uphold the values of honesty, integrity and professional excellence. Clarity of vision, decisiveness in action and leadership by example are essential for effective governance and you must set the benchmarks for these. ˇ	You must provide a framework whereby your subordinates can discharge their functions without fear or favour, feel secure and are rewarded for correct action.I wish you well in your endeavours.
