"I am absolutely delighted to release this survey. I compliment the Indian Association of Parliamentarians on Population and Development for undertaking this survey and for continuing your efforts in a vital area of national importance. I believe this brings together some very interesting and provocative material on the perceptions and approach of our elected representatives in a vital area of national policy. I do sincerely believe that elected representatives of people at all levels must play a more active role in educating the people and in raising our people's awareness on vital social and economic policy issues and I do believe that in the last few days the television screens have been projecting mysterious purification of sea water. People have been drinking that water despite the risks that they attract. All these have emphasized the need for what Jawaharlal Nehru used to call the cultivation of scientific temper. I do believe that the people's representatives must lead in spreading this cult of scientific temper in our country.Health and population policy also happens to be one such area of great national concern. There is a vital link between reproductive health, the health of mother and child and the general health of the entire family. I am really happy that emphasis has shifted from blind emphasis on population control to reproductive health, improvement of the health and social and economic status of our women with special emphasis on the needs of our children . I think that's the right focus. And I am happy that all parliamentarians will lead our people in this area. There are, of course, related challenges like HIV/ AIDS and others which impose an enormous social and economic burden on us. I make particular emphasis on the control of AIDS because in our setting, there are still many cultural taboos which prevent the openness in discussions on matters relating to human sexuality but if we don't wake up, this will leave a deep burden on our economy as it affects the most productive sections of our population. Therefore, tackling these challenges is one of our top priorities for our policy makers and social activists. Raising awareness and educating public is, therefore, an important political task. I am very happy to see that this task is being taken up by all of you and I commend your initiative. An important message that we must get across to the people is one of hope; that problems at hand can be solved. Indeed, we do find from our experience in some States, like Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, that we have been able to deal with these challenges more effectively than elsewhere. Learning from each other is one way of moving forward. I sincerely hope your Association will play a very important role in this process of educating the elected representatives across the country. Our Government has taken up a major initiative in this area through the National Rural Health Mission. I commend my Cabinet colleague Anbumani for the enthusiasm and dedication, for the commitment that he brought to bear on this vital area of national health policy. I would like all our elected representatives to take keen interest in this Mission and ensure that it is successful. Finally, I would like to emphasise that a person may be regarded by society as a "liability" if he or she cannot be a productive member of society. However, we can convert a "liability" into an "asset" by investing in that person's education, health and skills. It is such investment in our peoples' capabilities that not only enrich and liberate individual lives, but also contribute to over all national progress. The essence of our population policy, therefore, must be one of positively transforming people into social and national assets. In particular, in the well being of our women and our children. I sincerely hope our elected representatives will play a vital role in this great national endeavour. I wish you all the very best."
