 speech in hindiToday I am very pleased to hand over the houses to women Bidi workers in Solapur. Solapur is a historical city and thousands of people, especially women, are engaged in bidi industry here. These women are form the poor strata and earn their livelihood through hard work. The Comrade Guddu Tai Parulekar Women Bidi Workers Cooperative House Construction Society had planned ten thousand houses for these poor  women workers and has worked day and night to complete them on time. The society deserves commendation for their work. I congratulate each of the members engaged in the construction of these ten thousand houses and hope that in future. they will take more initiatives in this direction. I have been told that nowhere in India, has there  been a similar construction of this scale, ten thousand houses, especially for women workers, at one location. I congratulate the local MLA, Shri Narsayya Adamji, under whose leadership this task was completed. I also congratulate Smt Mangla Hotagi, Smt Shashi Kalapanibhate, Smt Fatima Farid Beg and M.S Naseema Guddu Bhai Sheikh who have played a very important role in completion of these houses. I also congratulate the Maharashtra Government which has provided all possible help for this plan and  Pandheji for completing  these houses in a limited time.Brothers and Sisters,More than 50 lakh bidi workers are engaged in this job in the country. These workers are spread across the country through Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Maharastra, Gujarat, Orissa, Bihar, TN, Kerala and Karnataka As I have said, these workers are not only poor but a  majority of them are women workers. Rolling bidis is an arduous job and the income earned by these ladies supports their respective families. It is the first priority of UPA Government to enhance the income of poor workers and provide them all social security and help.Bidi workers have been given some social security by enactment of Bidi Workers Welfare Fund Act. Under this law till now Rs 2 per thousand bidis rolled goes to the Welfare Fund and now for the past two years this has been enhanced to Rs 5 per thousand bidis rolled. The money is deposited in a welfare fund established for your welfare. Every year Rs 150 crore  are collected and various welfare initiatives have been taken for bidi workers. I have been told that a hospital and dispensaries are being run on this welfare fund and workers are also being financed for their treatment. Scholarships are also being provided to their children for school and college education. It is our motto that the children of bidi workers must get a good education, learn new trades and have a financially secure future.The ten thousand houses being given to bidi workers today are  also under the project which has been financed by this fund. Earlier only 20 thousand rupees subsidy was provided on each of the house. Now it has been enhanced to Rs 40,000. More over, Rs 2000 as additional subsidy has been provided on each of the houses making total subsidy of Rs 42000 for each of the houses. I am glad to know that Maharashtra Government has also contributed in this plan and  is providing necessary facilities.Brothers and Sisters,Our Government is a Government of common man and the agenda of our Government has been finalized in the National Common Minimum Program and whatever initiative is taken by our Government is based upon NCMP. In NCMP, the welfare of labourers and women workers has been given priority and various guidelines have been issued for their welfare. We have decided that to meet our promises for the welfare of the under privileged  under the NCMP and we work hard towards this end. To provide a definite income to poor class in rural areas, we have implemented the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. At present only 200 districts have been covered under it and in due course all districts of the country will be covered under this Act.The benefit of this Act will reach to each poor person of the country. I do believe the work  provided to people for their livelihood will eliminate poverty and starvation in rural areas.Still, lots of steps are needed for welfare of labourers. I know that labourers and workers especially those engaged in the unorganized sector and small sector, need several things. They are worried about treatment of diseases. They are also concerned about accident and deaths. They also worry for their maintenance in old age. We will have to take concrete steps to eliminate these concerns. We will need a big fund for this. We are committed to work on schemes using available funds through which these worries of yours may be eliminated. I do hope we will have some concrete plans soon. Brothers and sisters,At last, I again congratulate the Women Bidi Workers Cooperative Housing Society workers, Shri Narsayya Adamji, Shri Sushilkumar Shindeji and local leaders for constructing such a housing colony which is an example not only for the bidi workers in other parts of the country but for all workers across the country.  I congratulate you.
