 speech in hindiMy dear friend, Mr. Rahman Khan and respected Muslim and religious scholars, I am glad to be with you today.  My colleague Mr. K. Rahman Khan and other leaders  have arranged this meeting with you.  In the background of circumstances in our country today, aspersions have been cast upon the Muslim community  relating to terrorism. I have been told by Mahmood Bhai that you have all taken it very seriously and have called this meeting to ponder over this issue. I am glad to know that you are taking bold initiatives to lead the Muslim community in a new direction.  I congratulate all of you for this.First of all, I would like to say that Madarsa  education requires an overhaul so that the education may be useful to children not only in spiritual matters but also in earning a livelihood. The children must be imparted contemporary and modern education along with the traditional religious teachings. The Government will support such an  effort with funds. The Madarsa education system is no doubt based upon ancient educational principles. It has its own qualities but I would like to say that this spiritual education must be complemented with contemporary education. This will enable the youth studying in Madarsas to earn their livelihood after they pass out and they would also contribute as equal partners to the development of the nation. This country belongs to everyone and everyone should participate in its progress.You are all religious teachers and leaders of the Muslim community. You are the guardians of the Muslim community and your words are important for the community.  I request you to take up the challenge of leading the community in this hour of need.  You must request the youth to think and act honestly, tell them that they have to bring laurels to their community and country by adopting the correct course of action. They must not be swayed by others.  The children should secure religious as well as modern education so that they may have a bright future and participate in the nation's development.  It is also important to mention here that great number of Muslim clergy and scholars have participated in our freedom movement and the whole country remains obliged to them for their sacrifices. Their sacrifices should not be forgotten just because some defame Muslims today by terming the community as terrorists. It is nothing but a conspiracy to instigate them. Remember that terrorism has no religion, no caste, no language and no nationality.  Terrorists are friends of none - they are our common enemies. We must be very conscious of this. Today you must give serious thought to defeating this conspiracy and take concrete steps to encourage the Muslim youth to play their full role in the development of the nation.I would also like to mention here that the Muslim community today is educationally backward. Muslim women are also backward in comparison to other communities. This is a matter of serious concern in a religion where education has a pride of place. Prophet Mohammad has stressed the need for education from cradle to grave and said one should  if necessary go long distances to seek education. Such neglect of carelessness in that community with regard to education is therefore astonishing. In his first revelations God instructed to read his name and said that God taught mankind with the help of the pen. We should not ignore this teaching of God. Please pay more attention to spreading education. The Government of India will support you in this task.The Indian constitution has given equal rights to all. Despite that I accept the fact that Muslims have not got their proper share in whatever progress that has been achieved in this country. We are trying to set it on a correct track and are paying attention to it. Especially Muslim women must be encouraged to obtain education so that they may also keep abreast with others and may participate in the task of  nation building. The Government can open new schools, colleges but admission in these institutions to Muslim girls is your job. I request you kindly discharge your responsibility and encourage the Muslim girls to seek education. In many countries of the world Muslim women have attained prominent place, name and fame. Why should our Muslim ladies be backward? They also have to obtain education and find their place in society and share in the progress of nation.Anyone involved in terrorism does not belong to us, whatever may be the religion, caste or community he may belong to. In our view, a terrorist is nothing but a cheat.  Terrorism itself is a bluff,  it is a curse, which has to be fought at any cost. We need your support in this task.  Any action against terrorism must be based upon only concrete proof and facts. If any innocent person is indicted this is totally against our Constitution and deserves condemnation. Terrorism must not be related to any particular community or section of society merely based on rumours. We expect similar initiatives from all State Governments in this direction. Being Prime Minister of India, it is my duty to see that the Government of India and State Governments follow this principle.At last, I wish to say that you as, Muslim clergy, must provide such a leadership to the Muslim community that strengthens the community and leads it on the path of progress. I  do feel that India cannot progress until fifteen crore Muslims are also on the marching on the path to progress. You must make your community aware of its rights and duties. They must be trained to stand up for their rights. Nobody should suppress them and the youth must not be led astray by anti-national forces for their nefarious motives.I have heard Mahmood Bhai also and I am glad that you are leading the Muslim community in a new way. My Government is with you in this task. I want to convince you that while crushing terrorism if somebody harms any innocent  boy or girl, he acts against the principles of our government. We will check them with our full strength.  Your cooperation in needed. I wish that in every state, every city, the leaders of Muslim community and leaders of administration must have a regular dialogue. The difficulties of Muslim community must be brought to the notice of Government, whether State or Centre. Its our duty that fifteen crore Muslims of India must be provided proper protection, their rights must be guarded.  I do think if  the Muslims of India do not move on the path of progress, India will not progress in the true sense.
