Your Excellency President Michel Temer, Members of the media, Friends, I am honored to welcome President Michel Temer to India.I am delighted that Goa with its common cultural Portuguese heritage is part of his maiden visit to India. Though separated by geography, Brazil and India are natural partners linked by common values of democracy, rule of law and shared aspirations for development, peace and prosperity. President Temer as a foremost constitutional expert understands and appreciates this well. This visit takes place as both countries mark a decade of our strategic partnership. The world has changed in these ten years. The bilateral relations between India and Brazil have grown for the better. We have increased interaction at all levels. We are also joined together in shaping the international context to support our common pursuits and endeavors. I warmly recall my visit to Brazil in 2014. It was the first country I visited outside Asia after assuming office. I felt the full warmth of our friends in Brazil towards India. Excellency, India is the first country you have chosen for a bilateral visit outside Latin America since assuming your important new responsibility. Your visit reflects the importance we attach to our bilateral relationship. This was evident in our productive discussions this morning. Friends, President Temer and I have reviewed the full range of bilateral cooperation. Noting the potential for much more, we have agreed to scale up our engagement. This is in line with our mutual desire for a reinforced strategic partnership. Brazil is among our most important economic partners in Latin America. I am happy to note that India and Brazil have finalized the text of a bilateral investment agreement. It will provide much needed momentum to increased bilateral business and investment linkages. We have taken note of the priority that President Temer attaches to reviving the domestic economic agenda in Brazil. In this, India can be a valuable partner. I welcome Brazilian companies to come and invest in India and to forge long term commercial partnerships. President Temer and I have just met with our CEOs to hear from them first hand.I am encouraged at the steps they are taking to advance pragmatic collaboration. We will fully support this. I have sought President Temer’s support in facilitating greater market access and investment opportunities for Indian products and companies. I am thankful for President Temer’s positive consideration. We have also made progress in opening new areas of cooperation during this visit in drug regulation, agricultural research and on cyber security issues. President Temer and I also agreed to intensify and strengthen our coordination in important international fora. There is much that is common in our approach and positions. We will work closely at the United Nations, the G-20, G-4, WTO, BRICS, IBSA and other important platforms. Excellency, We deeply appreciate Brazil’s support for India’s actions in combating terrorism. We agreed that the world must come together to fight this menace without distinction or discrimination.We will continue to work with Brazil as an important partner in early adoption of the Comprehensive Convention Against International Terrorism (CCIT) at the United Nations. We thank Brazil for understanding India’s aspiration for membership of the Nuclear Suppliers’ Group. Excellency and Friends, Both bilaterally and multilaterally, the partnership between India and Brazil is filled with possibilities that we are keen to harvest. President Temer’s visit provides an important occasion to work on a roadmap to achieve this. As they say in Portuguese “A uniao faz a forca” – ‘our union makes us stronger’. Thank you.Honored to welcome President Temer to India. Delighted that Goa with its distinct Portuguese heritage is part of his maiden visit here: PMThis visit takes place as both countries mark a decade of our strategic partnership: PM @narendramodi https://t.co/Iy8hu3Nre5The bilateral relations between India and Brazil have grown for the better. We have increased interaction at all levels: PM @narendramodiPresident @MichelTemer and I have reviewed the full range of bilateral cooperation: PM @narendramodi at the joint press meetHappy to note that India and Brazil are close to finalizing the text of a  bilateral investment agreement: PM @narendramodiWe have made progress in opening new areas of cooperation during this visit in drug regulation, agricultural research & cyber security: PMWe deeply appreciate Brazil's support for India’s actions in combating terrorism: PM @narendramodiBoth bilaterally and multilaterally, the partnership between India and Brazil is filled with possibilities that we are keen to harvest: PMIndia & Brazil are natural partners, linked by common values of democracy & shared aspirations for progress & peace. https://t.co/OU0VRmw75w
