"For me its a journey in quest of one's roots because the spiritual foundations of India's freedom struggle were laid way back in this blessed land of South Africa. I, therefore, am mightily privileged to be here in your midst and have this unique opportunity of not only meeting such a distinguished group of citizens of South Africa but also have the privilege of speaking to them. It goes without saying that I deem it a great honour, pleasure and privilege in being here in your midst this evening. I come to South Africa to renew a centuries old bond of friendship. I am particularly delighted that I come here on the eve of the centenary of the First Satyagraha launched by Mahatma Gandhi, on the sacred soil of your great country . The people of India and Africa have known each other since the beginning of history. Indians representing diverse faiths and speaking a variety of languages have contributed to the transformation of this great country. They raised crops turning a barren land into a fertile countryside. They contributed to commerce, trade and finance. They participated in the development of education and health care. But, like their black brethren they also faced discrimination and the denial of fundamental human rights. It was to this land of discrimination that Mahatma Gandhi came. He returned home an enlightened transformed soul. As Gandhiji once recalled, "I had gone to South Africa for travel, for finding an escape from Kathiawad intrigues and for gaining my own livelihood. But as I have said, I found myself in search of God and striving for self realization." The fight of the people of South Africa for justice and freedom was a fight in quest of truth. We in India took up the issue of apartheid even before we attained our independence. In 1946 India became the first country in the world to demand of the United Nations that a collective stand be taken by the world body against apartheid. In 1967 the African National Congress opened its first office in Asia in New Delhi. We remained in the forefront of the world wide struggle against apartheid. At every level be it political, economic or diplomatic we extended our support to the people of South Africa in their historic struggle for freedom and democracy. Our late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi summed up the mood of the Indian people by declaring that the drum beats of the Africans for freedom and equality have become our heartbeats. It is, therefore, natural that our political relations today are defined by warmth and kinship and trust dating back to the 19th century. And in twelve years since South Africa became a free democratic country we have established cooperation in practically every area of human endeavour, be it science, agriculture, health or culture. Today South Africa is India's largest trading partner in Africa and India is one of the major investors in South Africa. We work closely in multilateral forums including the WTO and the UN. The community of Indian origin that has made South Africa its home for many generations constitutes a special bond between us. Their contributions for the cause of liberating South Africa from the apartheid regime are indeed noteworthy. Today you are helping to build the new South Africa and I am confident that you will do so with diligence, creativity and enterprise that have become the hallmarks of the Indian diaspora all over the world. India is on the march our economy in these few years have been growing at the rate of about 8 per cent per annum. We have ambition to set higher goals in years to come. The buoyancy and vitality of our economy is a measure of the creativity of our people which have been unleashed after full scale economic reforms were undertaken in the 1990s. While doing so we are engaged in a massive task of fulfilling the basic needs of India's teeming millions. The transformation under way in India, ladies and gentlemen, is, in my opinion, one of the most far-reaching social and economic revolutions of this century. More than a billion people are seeking their salvation within the framework of an open society and an open economy committed to full respect for fundamental human freedoms, the rule of law. I invite our friend in South Africa to participate in this adventure of creativity and enterprise any way you can to bind our countries closer. I am convinced that there is enormous untapped potential for forging new avenues of cooperation between our two countries. We in India are proud of the achievements of the people of Indian origin worldwide. I have often said that the sun has set on all the great empires of the world, but the sun will never set on the homes of the people of Indian origin, who now live in all continents as proud and productive citizens of free nations making contribution to the lands they are living in today. India and South Africa have many complementarities in economy, in culture, in human resource development, in science and technology, in working together to improve quality of governance, in improving the quality of delivery system for public services. All these issues I will be discussing with the President Mbeki and his colleagues. I have come here to forge new ties and bonds of cooperation between our two countries. As I have often said government in these days can at best be facilitators. It is upto the people, whether they are businessmen, academicians, scientists or technology to create a new mindset which will bind our countries in enduring friendship for mutual benefit. With these words I once again thank you for giving me this privilege of meeting you and sharing my thoughts with you. May your path be blessed."
