"Prime Minister Blair, Ladies and Gentlemen of the Press,It is gratifying for me that Prime Minister Blair and I have kept our commitment to hold a bilateral meeting each year.I deeply appreciate Prime Minister Tony Blair's personal commitment and involvement to strengthening our Strategic Partnership.As the world's largest and the oldest democracies we obviously share deeply held values and a commitment to democratic institutions and the rule of law. Our cooperation in combating terrorism has become particularly significant. We agreed that there is need for a coherent global effort with shared perspectives and commitments to combat terrorism wherever and whenever such attacks take place. Sadly both the Mumbai and London attacks are reminders of the common terrorist threats we face. Prime Minister Blair and I will later address an Investment Summit of our business leaders. There is clearly tremendous opportunity for further expansion of economic linkages even though they are strong and they are moving in the right direction. We are particularly glad that the United Kingdom views the rapid growth of India as an opportunity that can be used for mutual benefit. In fact, United Kingdom Business and Industry should look more closely at opportunities unfolding with the quiet but substantive manufacturing revolution taking place in India. While the United Kingdom is India's 4th largest trading partner and the 5th largest source of foreign investment into India, India has emerged to become the 3rd largest investor in the United Kingdom in terms of number of projects. In fact, foreign direct investment flows from India to the United Kingdom have exceeded those from the United Kingdom into India since 2004. India and United Kingdom have revitalized cooperation in scientific research and sought ways to link science and innovation with enterprise. We feel the time is right to expand collaboration in knowledge-based industry and to stimulate greater investments into India by both large corporations and Small and Medium Enterprises. As a knowledge economy, India places great store on respecting Intellectual Property Rights issues and data security and protection. We also hope to see a stepping up of cooperation in new fields like education, and health care. Increased cultural exchanges and facilitating the movement of peoples between our countries need to be encouraged. Prime Minister Blair and I conducted a useful review of issues of global importance and concern particularly the future of Doha Round of Trade negotiations . We also shared perspectives on developments in our regions as well as on issues relating to energy security and climate change in which the Prime Minister himself taken a lead in drawing global attention to these crucial issues. India deeply values friendship and cooperation with the United Kingdom. I am confident that the momentum in our relations will only gather momentum in the coming years and I thank the Prime Minister for his personal interest, strong endorsement to strengthen our bilateral relations. Thank you."
