"Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, EU High Representative Javier Solana, Commissioner Peter Mandelson, Excellencies, Ladies & Gentlemen, I would like to thank our host for the 7th India EU Summit, Prime Minister Vanhanen of Finland for his gracious hospitality. I would also like to acknowledge the presence here of the leadership of the European Union and thank them for their participation. Let me introduce the members of the Indian delegation... Consolidation of strategic partnership and intensification of dialogue with the European Union has been a priority of our Government's foreign policy.We welcome forward movement in implementing the Joint Action Plan adopted by the last Summit in New Delhi in September last year.We are deeply satisfied that the report of the High Level Trade Group has recommended for decision by this Summit, the launching of negotiations for a broadbased Trade and Investment Agreement with the EU. We look forward to early conclusion of these negotiations within a period of 2 years as envisaged by the Report.India and the EU are indispensable pillars of a new multi-polar world order. We have both the will and the capability to make meaningful contributions for meeting the challenges of managing global inter-dependence. An international order based on well defined rules and effective institutions is in our vital interests. While there are some rules for managing growing economic inter-dependence, we still lack forward looking institutional arrangements to manage the global political order. We believe that inclusive globalization will help in the equitable sharing of the fruits of economic and social development to address global problems of poverty, marginalization and inequality. We must work against artificially dividing the world along religious or cultural lines as such divisions will spell the death knell of globalization. Our shared values of democracy and respect for human rights, and our commitment to pluralism and liberty make us natural partners. We are also the world's foremost example of multi culturalism, which we believe is an inevitable consequence of globalization.The successful model of Indian democracy, with high economic growth and inclusive governance gives India a special position as a unique partner for the EU in the region extending from Gibraltar to the Malacca Straits. There are strong geo-political underpinnings for India and the EU to work together.India's global vision would remain imbalanced without the EU, more so, now, with the EU's integrated foreign and defence policies. Similarly, we believe that the EU's engagement with Asia would be incomplete without India. This recognition has found expression in the recent decision to include India in ASEM which we welcome and appreciate.India and the EU must work together in addressing key issues of globalization, terrorism, proliferation, energy and environment. India is witnessing one of the most far reaching transformations of this century. Over a billion people are seeking salvation within the framework of an open economy and an open society committed to fully respecting fundamental human freedoms and the rule of law.As a result of economic reforms initiated in the early 90s, India is experiencing an explosion of creativity and entrepreneurial spirit that has unleashed an economic boom. The EU which is India's largest trading partner and the second largest FDI source is already well poised to take advantage of these gigantic transformations. India has registered a growth rate of 6-8 per cent per annum for the last 16 years. In the first quarter of this year, our growth rate was a robust 8.9 per cent. We want EU to be a partner in our ambition to increase and sustain growth rates of 10 per cent per annum in the coming years. We want EU to look at India as a safe, secure and profitable trade and investment destination. We want you to look at India as a hub for high technology R&D;, manufacturing and for services. Not just for the vast Indian market but for adjoining areas with which India enjoys close ties - South East Asia, West Asia and Central Asia.We want you to take advantage of the vast pool of quality scientific talent and a young skilled work force in the manufacturing and service sectors. Restrictive visa regimes can stifle this potential. We should promote freer movement of people which is an inevitable requirement of globalization, while stemming the tide of illegal migration which we must all discourage.We recognize the interest of the EU on measures that India will take to further liberalise FDI in areas such as Telecommunications and Retail; efforts to improve infrastructure; opening up our financial sector and relaxation of labour laws. These issues continue to receive the attention of our Government. We want the EU to look at the expanded opportunities offered by our Special Economic Zones.Achieving energy security to provide for safe, secure, affordable and sustainable energy supplies is our common concern. We must also look to alternatives to our dependence on fossil fuels through non-polluting sources such as nuclear energy. We hope that the European Union will be in a position to support forward looking approaches to enhance international cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. This will enable countries like India to expand the share of nuclear energy in their national energy baskets. A meeting in Vienna with the NSG yesterday gave India the opportunity to reiterate its firm commitment to non-proliferation objectives while working with like-minded countries in expanding cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. I would like to state that India strongly believes that a further erosion of the non-proliferation regime is not in India's interests. We would like to thank the European Union for its support for India joining the ITER Project as a full partner country. I hope that the EU would be in a position to conclude early an agreement confirming India's membership of the Galileo Global Satellite Project.The recent bombings in Mumbai as well as the earlier bombings in London, Madrid and Srinagar remind us that terrorism remains the most serious threat to democratic, open and pluralistic countries. Strengthening international cooperation in this critical area is of vital importance to all free and democratic societies. An international norm of zero tolerance against terrorism will send the right signal to those countries directly engaged in terrorism or which are allowing their territories to be used for terrorist purposes.Thank you."
