"It gives me great pleasure to join you all on this very auspicious occasion which marks the beginning of sesqui-centennial celebrations of India's First War of Independence and also, it seeks to celebrate 60 years of our existence as an Independent sovereign Nation.India is in many ways unique. There is no country of India's size, of India's diversity, of India's complexity, trying to seek its economic and social salvation in the framework of rigourously functioning democracy committed to the rule of law and respect for fundamental human freedoms. This fact is now being recognized as never before in the world. And it is only appropriate that our children, generations to come should not forget the message of our freedom struggle.As I look back on history of India's freedom struggle - that history is also unique. Never before in history of the world, a Nation got Independence through non-violent struggle. Our freedom struggle, of course, goes back to 1857 when our people rose in revolt against the tyranny of foreign rule. It is necessary that all our future generations should never forget the sacrifices that our freedom fightershad to make so that we can breathe the air of a free Independent India. And in many ways, as I said, we are a unique country and that is best captured in a couplet by Dr. Mohammad Iqbal when he said:"Kuch baat hai ki hasthi mitthi nahin hamari Sadiyou raha hai dushman doure zaman hamara"Despite tremendous adversities, we have emerged as a successful functioning democracy. It is therefore important that this message of our freedom struggle, the commitment to patriotism, nationalism, secularism, social justice and removal of poverty - this is the essence of our freedomstruggle which we have been trying to give practical shape as an independent Nation.I congratulate Priyaranjan Das ji that he has brought out this Calendar, which I hope, will find its place on the walls of each house in our country and so that it can be a reminder of the sacrifices of our freedom fighters and also it will enable our young people to remember that eternal vigilance is the price that we have to pay for preserving our freedom.With these words, I once again express my happiness to be associated with this function this morning."
