"President Putin is visiting India as part of our well-established practice of annual summit between our two countries. His current visit is of special significance as he is the Chief Guest at our Republic Day celebration. We hold President Putin in high esteem as a world leader and a world statesman and as a special friend of India. It, therefore, gives me great pleasure in extending him a very warm welcome. Our discussion today were extremely useful and productive and confirmed once again that our strategic partnership is based on a deep convergence of our vital national interests. Though there has been a sea change in the international situation during the last decade, Russia remains indispensable to the core of India's foreign policy interests. Building on the long tradition of warm and friendly relations with Russia, we seek a comprehensive reengagement that would impart a new momentum and carry our strategic partnership to new heights. Energy security is the most important of the emerging dimensions of our strategic partnership. Russia's position as a global leader on energy issues is widely recognised. We look forward to long-term partnership with Russia in this vital field. We appreciate Russia's support in lifting international restriction on nuclear cooperation with India and in assisting us in the expansion of our nuclear energy sector. We have today signed a Joint Statement on cooperation in the field of peaceful uses of atomic energy. Our growing cooperation is manifest in the Memorandum of Intent. We have signed on construction of four additional units at Kudankulam. Both of us agree that our economic relationship is far below what is consistent with the demands of our strong strategic partnership and the growth profile of both India and Russia. The joint study group is now exploring possibilities of charting out a path of comprehensive economic cooperation and we have agreed to expedite its work. We had comprehensive discussions on our expanding defence relationship. Our defence ties have steadily progressed to include new areas such as joint research and development, manufacturing and marketing, regular service to service interactions and joint exercises. Our cooperation in the joint development of multi-role transport aircraft and our interest in such cooperation in the development of the fifth generation fighter are significant developments. We decided to give a boost to our cooperation in high technology sector including space, science & technology and information and communication. This is manifest in the signing of additional bilateral agreement to jointly implement wide-ranging cooperation in the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System. Mr. President we see your visit as a landmark and is now laying foundation for renewed engagement between our two countries and charting the course of our relations in years to come. Let me extend to you once again a very warm welcome and request you to address the media."
