"It gives me great pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to you, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Franzoni and the distinguished members of the Italian delegation. Mr. Prime Minister, we see you as an old and trusted friend of India. You are widely known and respected in India for your qualities of head and heart and for the warmth and affection you have for our country.As two ancient and great civilizations, India and Italy have immensely benefited from mutual interactions which have enriched our cultural heritage. Excellency, we recall your first visit to India as Prime Minister almost a decade ago. We see this current visit as a landmark event in our bilateral relations. We fully share the objective of increasing and diversifying our bilateral interactions in diverse fields. There are strong complementarities on both sides and we wish to leave no stone unturned to realise the full potential of our relations. I wish to extend a special word of welcome to the large Italian business delegation that is visiting India. I do hope you will get a chance to see for yourself the many opportunities the vibrant Indian economy offers.The common values we share - democracy, rule of law and respect for fundamental human freedoms - provide a basis for both countries to work together in meeting global challenges such as terrorism, proliferation, equitable and inclusive globalisation, the environment and climate change issues.We seek a strong bilateral partnership with Italy and we wish to work together as partners in various multilateral for a such as the EU, G-8, the Nuclear Suppliers Group and the United Nations. The strengthening of our relations with Italy and indeed the consolidation of our strategic partnership with the EU has been in large measure due to your inspiring leadership. In fact, no other European leader has been involved so closely and has contributed so handsomely to the strengthening of relations between India and the European Union. Excellency, once again let me welcome you and Madam Franzoni to India.Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, may I request you to join me in raising a toast to:-- the good health of his Excellency Prime Minister Prodi- Madam Franzoni- The well-being of the Italian people, and;- Everlasting friendship between India and Italy."
