 "I am doubly delighted to be amongst you this morning, both because of the occasion that brings us together - the Diamond Jubilee Celebrations of The Shillong Times - and also because of the venue. It is added attraction of today's function that I am among the people of my State. I thank you for giving me this opportunity. While congratulating The Shillong Times on crossing this milestone, I would like to specifically place on record my admiration for Shri Manas Chaudhuri and his brother, the late Ardhendu Chaudhuri. I recall that sad day two months ago when Ardhendhu tragically left us in such an untimely manner. The vaccum he leaves in the public life of this great State will be hard to fill.It has however, been to the lasting credit of both brothers that they have continued to lead The Shillong Times with courage, dedication and commitment. It is these qualities of head and heart that have secured a place of importance for this newspaper in the political, intellectual and cultural life of the region in general and Assam in particular. The owners, and publishers, and indeed all those associated with The Shillong Times can be justly proud of the fact that this newspaper has consistently provided a voice to the voiceless by espousing the causes of the diverse ethnicities of the "Seven Sisters" of the North-East. You have played the role of an intellectual bridge in a region of many rivers and myriad crossings. In doing so, you have earned a reputation for objectivity, fairness and fearlessness; qualities which are, sadly, at a discount in these competitive times. I salute you for your commitment to the fundamental principles of good journalism. One of the hallmarks of a true democracy is a free press. Our free press is, therefore, a matter of great pride for all Indians. The media is not only a reliable barometer of the daily trends of public opinion; it is often the conscience-keeper of our nation. A free, vibrant and responsible media acts as a check equally upon each of the pillars of our Republic, irrespective of whether it is the Legislature, the Executive or the Judiciary. As long as the media is objective and true to its calling in accurately reflecting the complexities and ground realities of our nation, no power in the nation - constitutional or otherwise - can have the courage to stifle or manipulate the media. Therefore, the best guarantee of the media's freedom is simultaneously its greatest strength: its objectivity and accuracy. I am aware that the struggle to maintain these attributes is not easy. The threats you face range from the insidious to the obvious; from blandishments to outright pressures. The sources of such pressures range from elements in authority to misguided elements of our societies. It is, therefore, all the more admirable that in the face of sustained and long-term pressures of these kinds across the region, we still have a free and vibrant media in the North-East. This is no mean achievement. This brings me to the specific context of the North East in general and Assam in particular. I have often marvelled at the fact that despite the abundance of natural resources and human capital, as a nation, we have failed to truly unlock the potential of this region. We have not been able to take advantage of many economic opportunities over the past decades. If the North-East has lagged behind the rest of our country, it is equally because we have not developed the connectivity of the region. In this, I include not only the physical infrastructure of a nation - its railways, roads and telecommunications - but also the connectivity that better media coverage implies. Let us acknowledge to ourselves the truth that there is inadequate sustained coverage of this region on the national media. This is why I would appeal to all media - national and regional - to focus on the task of improving national 'connectivity' through wider and deeper coverage of every part of our country. It is essential to do so to enhance the sense of being part of a larger family and to remove the misconception of a few; that is only the acts of a disaffected minority that get a hearing in Delhi. Nothing could be farther from the truth. I truly believe that we stand on the threshold of a historic opportunity in the North-East. A new era of possibilities is very much around the corner, but to exploit these openings fully. We must focus on evolving new approaches to persistent problems. There is no doubt that there are many grievances which agitate the communities of the region. But we have the option of remaining mired in past rancour, or move forward purposefully towards a more harmonious future. There can be little doubt that our choice determines whether or not we will miss the proverbial knock of opportunity. I stand before you to underline our government's commitment to evolving a new agenda of hope for our region. I reiterate what I have consistently said in all fora; our doors are always open to all groups who are committed to the economic upliftment and the social and political empowerment of the region. There is no issue, no grievance that is so intractable that it cannot be resolved through a patient, constructive dialogue, free from preconditions. This is the only possible way forward. Our democratic system is open enough, and flexible enough to welcome the participation of all shades of opinion. In the final analysis, power in India can only flow from the ballot box; never from the barrel of a gun. The future of the North-East could be one of peace, development and integration with our eastern neighbours. It is a vision that can easily be translated into reality. All it takes is faith in each other, sincerity of purpose, hard work and an environment of peace to enable a transformation of the region. With the right circumstances, we can enhance the pace of our engagement with our neighbours. This is the substance of my message to you.I believe that the media must play a pivotal role in disseminating both the message of peace and in holding out the prospects of a better tomorrow. What the media covers and how you choose to cover events will determine the way we all proceed from here. It is a sacred duty for all journalists, especially in this troubled region. I therefore urge all of you to maintain your objectivity and commitment to the interests of this region. Let me also wish The Shillong Times many more laurels in the years ahead. I am confident that your efforts will continue to inspire many new generations of journalists in this region and beyond. I wish you greater glories in the years to come. May your spark of inspiration never be extinguished."
