"I am returning to Manipur after a gap of exactly two years. I had addressed all of you from this very spot on 20th November 2004 on the historic occasion of the handing over of the Kangla Fort to the Government and the people of Manipur. That was a memorable occasion when the Kangla Fort, which is the symbol of the traditions and aspirations of the people of Manipur was handed back after more than a century of being out of bounds to ordinary Manipuris. The handing over of the Kangla Fort will go down in the annals of the state as a momentous occasion when the pride of Manipur was restored to its former glory. I am happy that in the last two years, the Government of Manipur has taken many steps to restore this Fort to its former glory. The Kangla Development Project is on the right track and I am confident that soon, this Fort which symbolises the bravery, patriotism and sense of sacrifice of all Manipuris will become the most prominent attraction of the State for all Indians. The richness and diversity of the culture of the State has drawn the attention of everyone who has passed through this lovely land. Pt. Nehru referred to the State as the Switzerland of the East and the Jewel of India. Indiraji wanted Manipur to shine like a gem. The distinctive character of this State, where so many different communities have lived side by side in harmony for centuries, is an example in miniature of the diversity that coexists in our country. The Meiteis in the valley and the different tribal groups in the hills have been living as neighbours for centuries. Since Independence, they have been working together to take this State forward to a more developed future. All the different strands that exist in the State contribute to the beauty of its composite culture. It is this composite culture which makes Manipur unique in the country in many respects and should be a matter of pride of every Manipuri. The dance forms and art forms, including classical dances, folk dances and singing styles, are enchanting in the true sense of the term. In recent years, Manipuris have excelled in sports and even though the State is small, it is a giant by any standard in the national sporting arena. Whether it be weightlifting, hockey, athletics, archery, football or any other discipline, Manipuris are in the forefront and many young children across the nation look up to them as role-models. It is these bonds that link Manipuris closely with every corner of India. The rest of the nation is concerned about the development of Manipur. Every citizen of India wants Manipur to develop rapidly and share the benefits of the rapid economic growth happening in other parts of the country. There are many people from Manipur who have studied in other states and are seeking fortunes in other states. However, it is our collective responsibility to ensure that Manipur develops in a manner consistent with its immense potential and that all Manipuris see a bright future for themselves here itself. When I came here last time, I had mentioned that our Government is committed to unleashing the creative potential of Manipur and creating an environment whereby the state improves economically, socially and infrastructurally. Addressing the convocation of Manipur University, I had said that I would like to see rapid progress in all these areas. Over the last two years, we in Delhi have been working closely with the State Government to make a difference to the economic prospects of Manipur. Over the last two years, a number of infrastructure projects have been approved and work has begun on them. These will ensure better connectivity with the rest of the country. The railway line from Imphal to Tupul has been sanctioned and work has begun on this. This would finally put the valley of Manipur on the rail map of India. This symbolic act will have positive economic consequences. The National Highway [NH-39] from Dimapur to Imphal is being upgraded from two to four lanes upto Maram. The remaining portion from Maram to Imphal will also be four laned so that movement of vehicular traffic on this critical lifeline is fast and smooth. Over the last year, the NH-53 has been made operational with the restoration of the bridges on Barak and Makru and this gives two reliable links to the State, one to the North and the other to the West. We will also improve the old Cachar Road and make it a good motorable road. Imphal is now better connected by air with private airlines flying to the city. I am aware that there is a problem of landing at night at the airport. I will ask the Ministry of Civil Aviation to expedite the construction of night landing facilities so that air traffic can improve even more. If the State has to develop rapidly, it is necessary that its economy becomes less dependent on agriculture with greater employment in industries and services. Availability of electricity can be a major constraint in the development of these sectors. The last time I was here, I had mentioned that we would work towards improving the power situation in the State. Over the last two years, the plans for a hydroelectric project at Tipaimukh and for the Loktak Downstream project have been finalized. This is a time consuming process, but working together with the State Government, we have ensured that these projects, which are located in difficult terrain, reach a stage where they can now take off. Both the Tipaimukh and Loktak downstream projects haven been approved by the Public Investment Board. We are waiting for the necessary environmental clearances on which work has already begun and which I am hopeful would be obtained shortly. I assure the people of the State that these projects, which are of immense economic value to the State and which are vital for making Manipur surplus in power generation, will take off very soon. My Cabinet colleagues, Shri Sushil Kumar Shinde, the Union Minister of Power and Shri Santosh Mohan Dev, Minister of Heavy Industry, will come here before Christmas and lay the foundation stones of the two projects so that work can begin on them. I am hopeful that on completion of these projects, the economic prospects of the State will receive a boost. Human development is critical in the long term for the people of the state. As promised earlier, Manipur University has been made a Central University. This would ensure that this University grows to a size and stature which would fulfil the academic aspirations of Manipuri youth. Today, I have laid the foundation stone of the Manipur Institute of Technology. There is a request for converting this engineering college into a National Institute of Technology as in other States. I assure the people of Manipur that we are committed to converting this institute into an NIT and will begin work towards this end shortly. It is my earnest request to the youth of the State to work hard to take advantage of the educational facilities that are being developed here. As India evolves into a knowledge economy and an industrial society, it is essential that the youth of Manipur are equipped with the necessary skills and knowledge to be able to contribute to and benefit from the growth of the country. Health care is another major issue of concern to all of you. Manipur suffers from the problem of a high incidence of HIV / AIDS. AIDS is a pandemic that we must work to control and eradicate if we have to ensure a bright future for our youth. While the Government will fight against illegal drugs and narcotics, the youth of the state too should resist the temptation to use narcotics and fight this menace at all levels. I am hopeful that the youth will respond to my call. In order to improve health facilities at the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal, we have sanctioned a project of Rs 210 crores to provide advanced facilities on par with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. This will make RIMS a centre for medical excellence and will cater to the needs of all neighbouring states as well. The Institute will also be now run by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare so that there are no problems for funds or staff in future. While Imphal develops as a major medical centre, we are working towards improving the health facilities at district headquarters. We have sanctioned the construction of five 50-bedded hospitals in Ukhrul, Tamenglong, Chandel, Senapati and Jiribam. On completion of these, people in the remote corners of the State will be able to get better medical treatment close to their doorstep. Keeping in view the immense potential for the development of sports in the State, we have supported many projects for improving the sports infrastructure in Manipur. Today, I have laid the foundation stone of the National Academy of Sports at Khuman Lampak which will become a focal point for all sports activities. Imphal already has a lot of infrastructure built for the National Games which were conducted here a few years ago. We will ensure that the youth of the State continue to remain in the forefront of sports at the national and international levels. The rich cultural heritage of Manipur and the diversity of its art forms can be a major tourist attraction. In fact, the performance of any art form of Manipur is always the sell-out performance in Delhi or any other city. The state has many tourist attractions - the Lok Tak lake, Moirang, the Shiroy Lily, the dense and diverse forests abundant with wildlife. We need to exploit this potential. We need to make Manipur a natural choice on all tourist circuits. We need to develop the infrastructure for this purpose. The Convention Centre for which the Foundation Stone has been laid today, would make it possible for many regional, national and even international conferences to be hosted at Imphal. It is through the creation of such facilities that Manipur can fulfil its tourism potential. A city of its size needs to be more modern with many more facilities. We have included Imphal in the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission. The City Development Plan of Imphal has been approved. As this project gets implemented, the look and feel of this historic city will change and it will get a more modern look while preserving its rich cultural heritage at the same time. In the last two years, the Central Government has extended extensive financial support for the development the State. We need to ensure that the projects for which funds were given are well implemented and the benefits make a difference to the lives of Manipuris. Just as we have made an impact in the last 2˝ years, I am confident that working together with the state government, we can make a greater impact in coming years. While development is essential for improving the quality of life of the people, it is essential that there is an environment of peace and tranquillity all around for development to take place. The rule of law and maintenance of public order are essential to any economic growth process. The situation in the state has been far from normal in the past. We have been trying our best to improve the situation on the ground. The last time I came here, I had said that I have come to Manipur to start a new process, recognising your legitimate aspirations for a life of dignity with self respect. I had empathised with pain and sorrow of mothers who had lost their children. I dreamt of a Manipur free of violence; a Manipur where there is no need for the presence of security forces that are now here to deal with violence. The Armed Forces are here to enforce the rule of law, to punish law-breakers and ensure the safety of Manipuris. Occasionally, the acts of a few may have become the object of public resentment. However, by and large, the Armed Forces are here to do a duty. If peace is given a chance in this State, there would be no need to use our armed forces for the task they are now charged with. I had hoped that peace would return sooner rather than later. I had given an assurance earlier that we will try to redress legitimate grievances on the Armed Forces Special Powers Act. A Committee had been set up to review its provisions and it has done its job. I believe that we need to consider some amendments to the Act by modifying existing provisions or inserting new provisions, whereby it could be made more humane giving due regard to the protection of basic human and civil rights. The people of Manipur are entitled to the same privileges and protections of law as the citizens in the rest of the country. The Home Ministry is working on this matter just as I had promised. Once these amendments are in place, I am hopeful that many of your grievances would be addressed. However, I must say that what we need is lasting peace and harmony. We need to work for a future where there is no need for such special Acts. We need to work for a future where every Manipuri can have dreams and aspirations like all other Indians and feel assured about her security and safety. We need to work for a future where Manipur is peaceful, progressive and prosperous like other regions of this country. I am convinced that this is possible. I am convinced that if all of you make a united effort, this can be realized. I am confident that you can do it. When that day comes and peace prevails, the existence of any such Acts would become a redundant issue. The diversity of Manipur is its strength. You have lived harmoniously for centuries. There is no reason why you cannot do so in future. The Government of India is committed to ensuring that nothing is done which will harm the sentiments of the people of this state. Like brothers and sisters, the citizens of Manipur can work together for a bright future. A country like India, with its immense diversity in languages, customs, beliefs and faiths provides enough scope for pluralism and diversity to co-exist. This contributes to the strength of this nation. The same is true of Manipur. We will work with the people of Manipur and fulfil your aspirations in all respects. I wish to assure the youth of Manipur that we will focus our attention on a development strategy which creates productive job opportunities on a large scale. The welfare of women and children will receive priority attention. I wish you well. I wish you a prosperous, diverse and dignified future. Jai Hind."
