"I am delighted once again to be here this morning to attend the 22nd Raising Day of this elite organization, the Special Protection Group. I would like to compliment you on completing yet another year of successful and highly satisfying service despite difficult and trying conditions. I would also like to extend my warm greetings to all officers and personnel who have won medals and trophies in recognition of their meritorious services and for their excellence in different professional fields of endeavour. I take this opportunity to extend my warm felicitations to all officers and staff of the SPG and their families. It is a matter of pride and satisfaction for all of us that in the last twenty-two years of its existence, SPG has developed into a formidable force, displaying a very high degree of professionalism and the most outstanding commitment to its truly onerous responsibilities. We are all justly proud that our country has a committed, well-trained Force for the security of the highest political leadership of the country. The informative and wonderful film, which I understand is a home production, is yet another proof of your commitment to excellence through upgradation of skills. It is heartening to note that the organization is not resting on its laurels, but is constantly gearing up to meet newly emerging future challenges. The constant goal of infusing fresh ideas and new concepts highlights your forward-looking approach. I would like to compliment the Mr. Wanchoo, Director and all ranks for making a determined effort to keep SPG prepared for all future threats. Recently I had the occasion to see the new training infrastructure being created by the SPG. The Human Performance Centre is undoubtedly a unique facility and perhaps one of its kind in the world, something which the SPG should justly be proud of. I am told that the newly renovated Firing Range is also the first of its type in our country. The recent acquisition of new weapons systems is indicative of SPG's efforts to acquire the most modern systems in the field. I am told the new communication system has added an edge to your professional efficiency. All these are indicative of a new thinking and a desire to take the organization to a still higher level. I am sure that with the assistance of these and other infrastructure facilities which you plan to acquire in the coming years, officers and men and women of the SPG would turn out to be more fit and still better equipped to perform their onerous duties. I would like to assure the Director that our Government will ensure that SPG gets all that it requires to upgrade the skills of its personnel. I have, over the last three years, been observing the SPG from very close quarters. I am also conscious that normally due protectees do not relish the idea of being so closely protected. My admiration, however, for the extremely difficult task that you are performing, has only grown with the passage of time. You have not only been taking care of security and safety but have always been acutely conscious of ensuring everybody's comfort and convenience. The men and women of SPG have done this with no regard whatsoever to their own comfort and convenience. I am deeply touched by your sense of devotion, dedication and selfless service. I have no doubt that other SPG protectees present here have similar sentiments in respect of SPG and admire you for that. In a democratic society it is imperative that the top political leadership should not only be easily accessible, but also visible and freely heard by the public at large. At the same time, I do understand and appreciate that security concerns also need to be addressed. I am, therefore, fully conscious that the task of the SPG is becoming more and more difficult, particularly in view of the rising threat perception. It is this contradiction that the SPG has to manage. I am aware that constant efforts are made by the SPG, which acts as an interface between political leaders and the people, in this regard. This reflects the creativity of the officers of SPG. A lot is also being done to minimize the inconvenience levels faced by the ordinary citizen. However, I am sure that a lot more can be done. Innovative lateral thinking along with an understanding approach is perhaps the answer. I am confident that the SPG would continue to strive to ensure even better results in this sphere in the years to come. After all SPG views excellence not as a destination but as a continuous journey. On this occasion, I once again express my deepest gratitude and appreciation for the services being rendered by the SPG. I am sure you would continue in your quest for excellence. I wish all members of the SPG family every success in their endeavours. May your path be blessed."
