Speech in HindiToday, we have gathered to commemorate a very historical event in real sense. This day 150 years ago, a gate of Old Delhi city was thrown open for revolutionary sepoys of Meerut. From this gate only, those revolutionaries entered the city and presented  a strong challenge to the British rulers. Their slogans resonated through the city of Mughal Emperor  Bahadur Shah Zafar and Mirza Ghalib. That incident triggered a prolonged battle against foreign rule, which continued for 100 years. From that time to 1947, we struggled a great deal. The spark of 1857 which was extinguished momentarily lighted a lamp of desire for freedom in the hearts of all Indians, which continued to guide the countrymen. The most special aspect of 1857 war of independence was that in this war people from all religions, languages and regions became united. This was a war for freedom and for shaping one's own destiny. That historical moment integrated kings, Jamindars, farmers, peasants, artisans under one banner.  Perhaps, this show of unity was unprecedented in Indian history. There is no doubt about the fact that 1857 was the dazzling example of India's national unity. It was a unique instance of unity in diversity. It was a living testimony of our colourful civilisation and culture. This is what is known as 'Ganga-Jamuni culture'. Even today, sometimes, attempt is made to divide us in the name of religion. Most important facet of 1857 was that religious boundaries were obliterated, distances were removed and all Indians came to the battle-field as one. In fact, religious tolerance brought people on a single platform against Britishers. Today, we are passing through an age of economic and social transformation. India is changing along with entire world and marching ahead with great speed. I wish that our youth should understand the hardships which were faced to attain independence. I wish that every citizen should know the sacrifice that our elders made and they should understand the feelings and ideals on  which freedom struggle was based. It is the good luck of the people of this great country that such big leaders emerged here to give us a new and independent India. Come, brothers and sisters, let us work together and show our unity. We pay homage to those great  souls who gave us independence through their sacrifice, hardwork and discipline. Come, let us prove ourselves to be worthy of that independence which was attained through the continuous hardwork of our elders. Our freedom struggle is based on unity and diversity and this is also the basis of our national integration of today.  	Come, let us work together to create a new prosperous India. Jai Hind.
