"I have great pleasure in congratulating the distinguished awardees of the Kabir Puraskar and National Communal Harmony Awards. Each one of them is a source of inspiration for us all. I wish them well in all their future endeavors. In honoring them, we reaffirm our nation's commitment to the value system enshrined in our constitution. The founding fathers of our republic were firm in their belief and convictions to promote communal harmony and amity and good will among all sections of the population. Shri Ram Babu Singh Chauhan has been deeply inspired by the life of Sant Kabir. Through his padayatra from Hathras to Agra to promote national integration, he has sought to further the ideals of the great Saint Kabir. Shri Ram Babu in his thoughts and deeds represents the universal values enshrined in all great religions of helping the underprivileged and those in need. Unmindful of his own safety, he acted boldly to protect a Muslim woman and secure justice for her when she became a victim of rape. He has also taken up various causes of farmers and other disadvantaged sections of society.Shri Rabindra Nath Upadhyaya is a freedom fighter from Assam. It gives me added pleasure, therefore, to compliment him. His rich experience in our struggle for independence, in the Bhudan and Gramdan movements has inspired him through life to serve society's under privileged sections I am truly Proud of the good work his organization, Tamulpur Anchalik Gramdan Sangha, has done to secure peace in the communally disturbed areas of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura. His development work offers hope to a people caught between insurgency and economic backwardness. Despite threats to his life, he has championed peaceful and constructive methods of change. It is such examples of selfless struggle that give us hope that peace and communal harmony will, in the end, triumph over violence and hatred.Finally, it is my privilege and honor to greet Shri Shashi Bhushanji, and the Institute of Socialist Education, New Delhi, that he founded , for the good work done to keep alive the values of our freedom struggle. His book "Fundamentalism: A Weapon Against Human Aspirations" places great emphasis on the role of education and the idea of social equality in the fight against religious extremism. Our ethos is best captured by the idea of Sarva Dharma Sambhava. The Indian view of secularism is based on this ancient principle. The forces of communalism and religious extremism and bigotry pose grave danger to our unity and integrity. Those who promote divisive agendas of communalism and casteism threaten to disrupt the unity and integrity of our country. In opposition to such forces stand people like Shri Ram Babu Singh Chauhan, Shri Rabindra Nath Upadhyaya, Shri Shashi Bhushan and institutions like the Institute of Socialist Education. It is truly inspiring to honour such people and such institutions. May their path be blessed."
