 "It is a matter of great pride for all of us that we are launching today the direct live telecast of the proceedings of our Parliament via satellite. It is particularly appropriate that the first item that we will see following the inauguration is a recording of Panditji's famous speech at the dawn of our Independence. For the Rajya Sabha, the Lok Sabha and for our democracy in it's collectivity, today is a red letter day. This regular and daily telecast of the proceedings of our Parliament will enable our citizens and millions of people abroad to observe Indian democracy at work and in action. The people of India have repeatedly and regularly reposed their faith in the institutions of parliamentary democracy. The roots of our democracy go deep into the national movement for our freedom which was a people's movement. There is no doubt that one important reason for our standing tall in the comity of Nations is our unflinching commitment to the values and principles of democracy. That so large a Nation as ours, so diverse, so complex and so rooted in age-old values, customs and traditions has come to respect the institutions and practice of democracy is a great tribute to the genius of the Indian people and to the founding fathers of our Republic. We are all naturally proud of this rich heritage. However, we must remember at all times that democracy is not just about voting a Government in once in five years. It is about respecting the values and principles of our Constitution and the Rights and Obligations it confers on all our citizens rights as well as duties. Democracy has a meaning for the people because it enables them to live a life of dignity and self-respect. It gives voice to the voiceless millions. This Parliament and our State Legislatures lie at the heart of our democracy and it is here that the voice of the people is best heard and most articulated. It is incumbent upon all of us to respect the great institutions of our democracy. I do believe that we are all obliged to ensure the normal and regular functioning of Parliament as a prayer and a tribute to the spirit of our Constitution and the people at large. I do sincerely hope that this live telecast will improve the quality of debate in Parliament and encourage more and more Members to be more actively engaged in its proceedings. It is also an important means of educating the people at large about the reasons for the decisions we take and the decisions we do not take, the pros and cons of every issue, so that we have an informed and responsible electorate. The telecast by satellite will not only take Parliament closer to all our citizens in the remotest parts of our country, but it will also enable people in our wider neighbourhood to see for themselves the vibrancy of Indian democracy at work. I sincerely hope that this will help instill greater confidence and trust in our neighbours and make them better appreciate the hopes, the aspirations and the yearnings of one billion Indian people. India wants peace and security in its neighbourhood so that we can look forward to a future of shared prosperity. Jai Hind."
