"It is indeed a matter of great happiness to give away the very prestigious Awards to DRDO Scientists for distinguished service. I convey my heartiest congratulations to the Scientists and to the members of their families and to the entire DRDO fraternity. India stands for peace and for the peaceful resolution of all problems between nation states. Our national goal is to foster an external and internal environment of peace and stability, which will allow us adequate space to concentrate on the multiple economic and social challenges facing our people. But the reality is that we live in a world of unequal power relations. We live in an uncertain international security environment. We are therefore obliged to create adequate defence preparedness to manage any potential challenge to our security and vital national interests. A key factor driving the power of nations is their ability to operate on the frontiers of scientific and technological knowledge. This is as important for our national defence as it is for our economic security and strength. Our country looks to the DRDO to fulfill this vital national goal. Today let all those associated with the organization rededicate themselves to the original purpose of the establishment of the DRDO, which is the application of science and technology for the defence of our motherland. I am happy to note some of the significant developments of the DRDO during the past one year. The successful launch of the Agni-III missile has made us all very proud as a nation. The successful launches of the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile from different platforms have validated its performance. With the successful demonstration of anti-ballistic missile technology, India has entered an exclusive club of countries possessing such a capability. These are laudable achievements of the DRDO, which has made the entire nation very proud. The other ongoing programmes of DRDO have also achieved significant milestones. The first of the limited series production block of the Light Combat Aircraft, Tejas, underwent a successful first flight. The production of the MBT - Arjun Tank is in progress. Crucial advances have been made in electronic warfare, radar and communication systems, as well as in naval systems, materials technology and in the application of the life sciences in our defence preparedness. I understand that during the XI Plan period, DRDO will focus on several state-of-the-art technologies to keep pace with current trends in warfare. Given the supreme importance of the task at hand, it is imperative that the DRDO, Indian industry and the armed forces work jointly to enhance and modernize our country's defence capabilities. It is not often that we have been able to strike the right balance amongst the competing priorities of the developers, producers and users of advanced weapons systems in our country. The rapidly changing international defense and security environment does not of course always provide us the luxury of developing weapons systems over long gestation periods. Delays at the development stage run the risk of obsolescence of the weapon system by the time they are ready for serial production. Causing delays at the stage of production mean that our armed forces are deprived of timely deliveries, which often compel the Government to look for external procurement to fill emerging gaps in our inventories. The DRDO, therefore, must strive for the highest standards of performance and delivery. In achieving these goals, the Government is committed to helping the DRDO adapt to the rapidly changing global scenario and to the development of a vibrant defence industry in our country. Our resources, our capabilities and our infrastructure, including intellectual capital in both the public and private sector, have to be fully mobilized and utilized. As India's integration with the global economy proceeds ahead, new opportunities as well as new challenges will arise on the horizon. Our defense industry should acquire the efficiency and agility to respond to the new environment so that the best weapons systems are available to our armed forces in a timely fashion. We all have a responsibility for maximizing returns on public investment while ensuring that the strategic autonomy we seek in key defense sectors is not diluted or compromised. India is a responsible member of the international community and we have a vital stake in the evolution of a stable and rule-based international system. We seek, therefore, a neighborhood of peace and prosperity as a vital pillar of our national security. We don't wish to engage in an arms race with any one. As a possessor of advanced technologies, we will continue to maintain the highest standards of non-proliferation controls. A heavy responsibility rests on the shoulders of the DRDO in meeting these challenges. I am confident that the DRDO will develop the will and the resources to meet these challenges most effectively. You can count on the full support of the Government in your future endeavors. With these words, I once again congratulate the awardees for their achievements and wish them many, many more years of distinguished service to our nation and to the people of India at large."
