Mr. Chairman, Sir, I welcome you to this August House with great joy and pride. I have been a Member of this House for over 16 years. So I say with all sincerity that you come in a long line of distinguished Chairpersons, and you come with great distinction. You have had a distinguished service as a diplomat, representing our country in important capitals of the world and the United Nations. More recently, you have also served the cause of education as Vice Chancellor of the Aligarh Muslim University, and the cause of empowerment of all our minorities, as Chairperson, Minorities Commission. Your professional record, your sincere commitment to the ideals and values that define our Republic, your patriotism and your concern for the well being and welfare of our people have earned you the respect and admiration of our people. am sure all of this will stand you in good stead in the years to come as you discharge your onerous responsibilities. Sir, this House has a unique position in our Republic. It is both a House of States and a House of Elders. As House of States it offers a unique platform for every region of our country to have its voice heard in the highest councils of Government. As House of I Elders we are called upon to reflect, with patience and sobriety, on the issues of the day and legislation at hand. I am sure with your wide-ranging experience you will provide guidance and balance to the proceedings of the House. Sir, I have witnessed the proceedings of this House for many years, as its Members for the past 16 years, and as an official of the Government of India for almost two decades before that. This House has been witness to some very enriching and enlightening  debates.However, in recent years we have also witnessed, with profound concern and sadness, repeated disruptions of proceedings and a regrettable unwillingness, on occasions, to engage in informed discussion. I hope all of this can be put behind us and we can restore to this House a sense of dignity and decorum that is expected of a House of Elders. Sir, I stand here to assure you the sincere cooperation of  our government and the constituents of the United Progressive Alliance. All of us must work together to ensure that this House  echoes the heartbeat of the Indian people and lives up to their  expectations. Sir, I wish you well and wish you the best in  discharging your constitutional responsibilities. Thank you.
