" Let me wish you all "Eid Mubarak" and in advance, "Happy Diwali". I hope the festive season brings each one of you and your families joy, success and happiness. My wife and I are delighted to be in Nigeria. Ever since our arrival we have been made to feel at home. The warmth of the reception and the graciousness of the hospitality have overwhelmed us. India and Nigeria share many commonalities. Our historical experience and common developmental challenges have brought us close together. We share common hopes and aspirations. India is the largest democracy in the world and Nigeria is the largest democracy in Africa. We are multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-lingual countries governed by system of plural democracy. India's partnership with Nigeria and with Africa is important for us. We now seek to build on the goodwill that exists between us to shape a strong contemporary partnership that is multi-faceted and mutually beneficial. During my visit, I look forward to holding extensive discussions with President Yar'adua and his colleagues, I have been given the honour of addressing the Nigerian Parliament and am looking forward to this opportunity. It will be our intention to place India and Nigeria on a higher and qualitatively new footing. Nigeria is India's largest trade partner in Africa. It also plays an important role in meeting India's quest for energy security. Indian companies, both public and private, have found willing homes in Nigeria. To our Nigerian friends present here today I wish to convey the warm greetings of the people of India. We greatly value your unstinting contribution to strengthening our traditional friendship and to diversifying our relationship in a meaningful manner.To members of our India community let me say that India is proud of you. You are our bridge that unites India and Nigeria. You have acquainted yourself most creditably. You have contributed to the development of friendship and goodwill between our countries. You have also contributed to the development of Nigeria by your initiative, enterprise and hard work. Indian teachers and doctors who came in the 1970s and 80s are still remembered fondly in Nigeria. I am told that Indian Industry and business is the second largest employer in Nigeria. Your contribution in the area of social work, especially in the health sector is widely appreciated. As people we value the virtues of tolerance and co-existence among cultures, language, religions, political and social views and different way of life. I believe that this background has something to do with the remarkable adaptability and resilience of India communities all over the world.While commending the success of India here, I would also like to pay tribute to the openness of the Nigerian society, which has created an enabling climate for our people to do well and to flourish. The government attaches the highest importance to the safety and security of our citizens living abroad. We have been assured at the highest level of the host government that this is a matter that is being given high priority. Our mission will offer all necessary assistance to our citizens in distress. We are engaged in efforts for the social and economic transformation in the framework of an open society and an open economy, committed to the rule of law and to fundamental human freedoms. Our success in combining will have a profound impact on the world.We are a rapidly growing economy and we are earning acclaim for the quality of our human resources. We are confident that in the coming years we can continue to sustain a growth rate of between 9-10 percent. We need this rapid growth to meet our socio-economic objectives and to rid our country of chronic poverty. India offers limitless opportunities and is looking to its overseas communities to contribute their might.India has entered an exciting new phase. It is a vibrant and self-confident nation. I invite you all to contribute your spirit, endeavour and enterprise in the service of your homeland."
