"It gives me great pleasure to be present here today in the company of Her Excellency Dr. Angela Merkel to launch this Science Express. I am particularly happy that this project is being launched by Dr. Merkel. She is not only a world leader of outstanding international repute but also herself is an accomplished scientist. Our collaboration with Germany in science and technology goes back several decades. We recall our partnership with Germany in setting up the Rourkela Steel Plant and Indian Institute of Technology at Chennai. As part of this progressively strengthening tradition, our scientists have now conceived and executed a novel idea of mounting an exhibition of a variety of interesting facets of modern science and its applications. Germany's achievements in the area of science, technology and research and development have made it an economic superpower in the world. As the world moves towards a knowledge economy, German organization, precision and innovation will help it in maintaining its economic leadership. When the Science Express leaves this station it will travel the length and breadth of India during the next several months. It will bring the wonders of modern science to remote corners of our vast country. The Science Express should contribute to the propagation of the scientific temper among our youth, which was a cherished dream of Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of our country. The Science Express will build new bridges of understanding and goodwill between India and Germany. It will symbolize the exciting partnership between our scientists that befits the 21st century. It will symbolize and showcase our cooperation in the popularization of science and its importance to our relationship. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the Max Planck Society in Germany, the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research, Indian Railways and the Department of Science and Technology for making this project possible. In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm the importance we attach to our partnership with Germany. It is my sincere and fondest hope that we will see further such projects between India and Germany in the years to come."
