Speech in HindiBrothers and Sisters,Arunachal Pradesh is the Land of the Rising Sun for India. I am delighted to be here today at this eastern most corner of our great nation. I bring with me the best wishes of the people of India. I have no hesitation in saying that our government has given the highest priority to the development of the North Eastern Region, including Arunachal Pradesh. Therefore, I am particularly happy that my visit to Itanagar is associated with the launch of several new projects. A new dawn, of progress and prosperity, is about to break out for this beautiful State.The foundation for Arunachal Pradesh's development in recent times was laid by our former Prime Minister, our beloved Rajiv Gandhi, when he granted Statehood. Since then, Arunachal Pradesh has made rapid strides. I assure you that in the very near future we will see an acceleration of Arunachal Pradesh's development. I have come here today with that promise and with that sacred assurance.I am here today in two different capacities. I come to you as a Prime Minister, but more importantly I come to you as the adopted son of your neighbouring Assam. I have devoted the past seventeen years of my public life, as a Member of Parliament, to the welfare of the people of Assam, and the people of the North-eastern Region. Arunachal Pradesh, therefore, is part of my own adopted neighbourhood.Our government has made connectivity and infrastructure development the corner stone of the development of the North East. New roads, new railway lines, new airports, new telecommunications, new power stations - they are all the pillars on which we want to build a new North East, a new Arunachal Pradesh. It is not just this physical connectivity that binds us all together, but the emotional connectivity that makes us all proud citizens of a great nation, a free and democratic Republic.It gives me great pleasure to lay the foundation stone of the new Secretariat building, the Pare and Dibang power projects, the Itanagar water supply scheme and the Naharlagun-Nirjuli water supply scheme and the new railway link between Harmuti and Naharlagun. The Pare project, the Dibang project and the Subansiri project will all come up in the near future and contribute to the energy security of Arunachal Pradesh.I am happy to announce that our government is taking up a programme for the electrification of all households in Arunachal Pradesh. New hydel power projects are being constructed to generate the electricity required. The funds required to complete the Kush, Haliapani, Zanithang and Chambang power projects will be made available. Apart from the villages covered under the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana, we will ensure that all other villages are also connected with electricity in the next two years.The new rail link between Itanagar and Harmuti will reduce the travel time to destinations outside the State. I am also happy to announce that a new greenfield airport will be coming up at Itanagar. We will also be operationalising other airports at Pasighat, Along, Daparizo, Ziro and Tezu. I have also asked the Ministry of Defence to upgrade the infrastructure at Tuting, Mechuka, Pasighat, Vijainagar and Walong. I am also happy to announce daily helicopter services between Guwahati and Tawang. Our government has been speeding up road construction across the country, especially in this region. I am, therefore, happy to announced that a two lane Trans-Arunachal Pradesh Highway, from Tawang to Mahadevpur, covering 1840 Kms., and passing through Bomdi La, Nechipur, Sippa, Sagalee, Ziro, Daparizo, Along, Pasighat, Roing, Tezu, Mahadevpur, Namchik, Changland, Khonsa and Kanubari will be constructed. The Trans-Arunachal Pradesh Highway will be one of the most important new road projects to be taken up by my government. It will contribute to the economic development of the State and create new employment opportunities for the youth of Arunachal Pradesh.Arunachal Pradesh has been doing well in implementing road projects. I am happy to announce that four lane connectivity to Itanagar will be completed by 2013-14 as part of the East-West Corridor. Existing 2-lane roads providing connectivity to district headquarters wil be improved. Apart from a total of 3296 kms of roads, an additional 1150 kms of roads will be constructed in the State. Even rural roads will be constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. About 513 inhabitations will now be connected with roads under the PMGSY. We are also committed to providing funds for basic amenities like drinking water supply and sanitation. I am happy to note that drinking water supply to Itanagar and to Naharlagun- Nirjuli township is being augmented through a new projects for which we have provided the required funds. I believe that the progress and development of States like Arunachal Pradesh is a measure of the progress and development of the nation as a whole. As our nation marches forward, we do not want any region of our country to fall behind. When we speak of "inclusive growth" we mean economically inclusive, socially inclusive and regionally inclusive. Balanced regional development is a matter of priority for us. So is the empowerment and welfare of every section of our society. I take heart from the fact that the State has done well in the field of education. A lot more will have to be done for its advancement and progress. I assure you that we will invest in the educational advancement of the people of Arunachal Pradesh.We are specially committed to the economic and social upliftment of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, all Minorities, and all our women and children. It is this inclusive character of our development process and of our democracy that earns for us a special place in the hearts and minds of the people of our country and the world. India's message to the world is "Unity in Diversity". Our ancestors gave us the motto "Vasudhaiva Kuttumbakam" - the "Whole World is One Family". It is this sense of pluralism that brings us all together. I assure you that we will not leave any stone unturned to ensure the rapid social and economic advancement of this region, especially Arunachal Pradesh. Our Government is sincerely committed to investing in employment-generating programmes, in improved and modern connectivity and infrastructure. The new projects I have announced today will create new employment opportunities, both directly and indirectly, to the youth of this State.In our ancient culture we, in India, are used to looking East every morning as we wake up to pray to the Sun God. We thank Almighty for the warmth and the brightness of the Sun. Arunachal is our East, our land of hope and promise. I assure you once again that a new Sun rises today in Arunachal Pradesh. There is a new ray of hope for a bright future of development, of education and of new employment opportunities. I wish you all well. I assure you that your best interests are at the core of my heart. I wish you all well. Jai Hind!
