"I am delighted to be here today to lay the foundation stone for this important power project in Delhi. This project is the fulfillment of yet another promise that we have made to the citizens of Delhi. I am sure that the citizens of Delhi will be happy to learn that our Government is addressing the problem of power shortage in Delhi with seriousness and commitment. Delhi, and the National Capital Region around Delhi, is among the fastest growing urban agglomerations in the country. All of us know that Delhi is not just one city. It is an ancient city, with layers of history and today encompasses many cities within itself. Today, we are witnessing a New Delhi growing in front of our eyes. To keep pace with this growth, we have to increase investment in infrastructure. Delhi has many pressing needs. We need improved public transport, we need better sanitation and urban upkeep, we need more space for our children to play, for people to walk and homes for all our citizens. I assure you that our Government will not rest till Delhi truly becomes one of the world's best capital cities. We will make Delhi a humane city, a green and clean city, a vibrant city, a city of joy and hope for millions, a city which the entire nation can be proud of. The most important need of the citizens of Delhi, as in other cities too, is access to drinking water and to good quality electricity. I am therefore happy to be here today to associate myself with the beginning of work on this new power project. The Bawana gas-based power project will address an important need of the people of Delhi. I compliment the Government of Delhi, Smt. Sheila Dikshitji, and my Cabinet colleague Shri Shindeji, for the interest they have taken in moving this project forward. This project, with an investment of over Rs. 4,000 crore will bridge a major gap in the city's electricity requirements. It will also meet the power required for Delhi to host the Commonwealth Games in 2010. The count down to the Games has begun and I am sure Delhi will host a great sporting event. I have been assured that our two major public sector organizations, BHEL and NTPC, will begin work on this project immediately and ensure its prompt completion in time for the Commonwealth Games.I am happy that a power project associated with the Games is based on liquefied natural gas. This is an environment friendly project. It will help us in controlling the problem of pollution in Delhi. I am also happy to learn that another gas-based power station is to be set up at Bamnauli in South West Delhi. This is our commitment to protecting our environment and addressing the challenge of climate change. With our economy growing at 8 to 9 % per annum, with growing urbanization and rising prosperity, the demand for electricity is outpacing existing sources of supply. India is blessed with vast reserves of coal. Our Government has taken many steps to increase coal production. We are also trying to develop hydro-electricity. But, we also have to keep in mind environmental concerns and concerns about people displaced by mining and dams. We are blessed with ample solar energy but it will be some time before we can tap this source in a large quantity. Hence, we must widen our energy basket to ensure energy security. In recent years we have expanded the use of natural gas as a new source of energy. The Bawana project is based on natural gas. There are many other projects based on gas, in Delhi and elsewhere. At the same time, we must also further develop our nuclear energy potential. Our Government is committed to further development of nuclear energy both as an environment-friendly source of power and as a means of widening the energy basket available to us. Our strategy for energy security is a multi-pronged strategy. We do not have the luxury of depending on only one or two sources. While some sources of energy may be cheap today, we have to think for the future. We have to think for future generations. Our energy needs are bound to grow. We will be failing in our duty to our nation, and to posterity, if we do not look ahead and take steps not just for today or tomorrow, but for future generations. Increasing the supply of energy is one way of dealing with energy shortage in our country. A second way is to improve energy efficiency. I urge the citizens of Delhi - and all fellow citizens of India - to exercise restraint in the use of electricity. We must adopt measures that will increase the efficiency of the energy being used. When I was a child, we were told to switch off the light when leaving the room. These days, it has become fashionable to keep all the lights switched on in homes. We must rediscover the value of austerity in the use of scarce energy resources. I want the young people of our country to start a new campaign for conservation of energy. Let us think of new ways of dealing with some of our energy problems. I hope the construction technologies being used for the Commonwealth Games will be resource-efficient and energy-efficient. I am happy to learn from Smt. Sheila Dikshitji that Delhi is promoting the use of CFL lamps and solar water heating systems to conserve power. This is a welcome initiative. I want Delhi to become a pace setter for the entire country in the efficient utilization of energy. Finally, I would like to compliment Smt Sheila Dikshitji and her government for having worked tirelessly over the last ten years to change the face of Delhi. Work has been done on an unprecedented scale in building new flyovers and roads and in improving the facilities available to the citizens of Delhi. Everyone who has traveled by the Delhi Metro would appreciate that the Metro has made travel within the city extremely convenient and comfortable. We are expanding the Metro to new areas of the city so that its benefits can be felt by lakhs of other citizens. The Delhi Government has also opened many new schools and hospitals, has expanded the basic amenities available to jhuggi-jhonpri colonies, and has worked hard to improve the living conditions of the weaker sections of society. I have no hesitation in saying that today, Delhi is one of the cleanest, greenest and most beautiful cities in the country. I congratulate Smt Sheila Dikshit and her government for this excellent work. I once again compliment all those associated with this project. I hope that Delhi will gradually become the Delhi of our dreams. Jai Hind!"
