SHRI SHIVA RATRI DESHI-KENDRA MAHA-SWAMIJIDr. Shri Shivakumara MahaswamijiJagadguru Shri Bala Gangadhara Natha MahaswamijiShri Dharam Singhji,Shri Siddaramaiahji,Shri Rehman Khan Saheb;Shri Rajasekharan;Dignitaries of the Government of Karnataka and other Dignitaries from Karnataka.Ladies and Gentlemen,	It gives me great pleasure to be here today to inaugurate the Dasoha Bhavana.  I am particularly pleased to associate myself with the Mahavidyapeetha and the work of the historic Sri VEERA-SIMHASANA Math because of the commitment of this Math to both "knowledge" and to "Welfare".I was heartened to learn that the Math, established in the 10th Century AD, is dedicated to the concept that the "gift of knowledge is Greater than any other gift".  I do sincerely believe this to be the case.  Knowledge empowers.  It enables.  It increases the range of possibilities.  There is the classic saying that if you give a man a fish you feed him once, if you teach him fishing you enable him to feed himself forever.  Knowledge is what makes us human.I am also heartened by your commitment to social welfare.  The concept of the Dasoha Bhavana, of combining the respect for knowledge with a commitment to welfare, is in many ways unique and deserves our whole-hearted commendation.Ours has been a knowledge-based civilization.  Yet, the fruits of knowledge have not been evenly distributed.  Our Government, through the National Common Minimum Programme, has committed itself to the spread of knowledge across all sections of society so that we empower and enable every single citizen of our country.  Education and the imparting of skills are basic pillars on which we can build individual capability.  There is much the country can learn from the commitment of institutions like yours to knowledge and learning.The idea of the Dasoha Bhavana is also an important element of our Government's policies.  I am happy to say that our Government has strengthened the Mid Day Meal Programme to encourage children from disadvantaged sections of society to attend schools and secure elementary education.  We are also proud to have launched the National Food-For-Work Programme that offers social security to the most distressed sections of our society. I am also happy to say that our Government has brought to Parliament the National Employment Guarantee Bill to provide legal guarantee of employment in the more backward regions of our country to people in genuine economic distress.Our Government is truly committed to the welfare of the people.  I assure you that we will wipe every tear, feed every mouth and educate every child.  This is our solemn promise to the people of our country.  We will mobilize the financial and human resources and the political will to deliver on this promise.Friends,The Government is not always the best instrument for providing welfare and relief to people in distress.  In our country we have seen non-government organizations work with great dedication and commitment.  I am also heartened by the work done by charitable organizations like yours.  Motivated by your commitment to mankind and to those in distress, you have been pro-active in providing succour to the needy.	The practice of free feeding of the devout, is something I have always admired whenever I have visited a "Langar" at a Gurdwara.  Whether at a Gurdwara or a Temple or a Mosque or a Church, the idea that we serve God by serving humanity is an elevating one.  This aspect of all religions is something we must all cherish as the true legacy of humanity.	This is the idea that shaped Gandhiji's concern for "DARIDRA-NARAYANA", the poorest of the poor.  The service of the poor, Gandhiji would often say, is the service of God. Writing in the Young Indian, Gandhiji once said:"I dare not take before the poor the message of God.  I may as well place before the dog over there the message of God as before those hungry millions, who have no luster in their eyes and whose only God is their bread. ..  For the poor the economic is the spiritual.  You cannot make any other appeal to those starving millions.  It will fall flat on them.  But you take food to them and they will regard you as their God."	On another occasion Gandhiji said, "How am I to talk of God to the millions who have to go without two meals a day?  To them God can only appear as bread and butter."  At Dasoha Bhavana you combine the service of God with the service of Daridranarayana and the poor see the light of God in the hand of the one who feeds.  I salute this dedication and commitment to humanity.	I am also encouraged by the good work you have done to provide relief and succour to our brothers and sisters whose life was turned upside down by the Tsunami disaster.  I am happy to learn that you will be aiding the construction of a "Mysore Model Village" to rehabilitate 272 families affected by the tsunami.	I have been touched by the enormously generous response of millions of Indians for tsunami relief and rehabilitation.  It showed that people care.  People want to give and share.  We must celebrate this dimension of the humane personality and of our society and Nation.	Let me once again compliment you for the good work you are doing and extend my wholehearted support for all your endeavours.  I hope your work here will inspire many more of our citizens to work for the poor and for the needy.  I hope this combined effort of our enlightened citizens will spread the light of knowledge and wipe out hunger among the millions of our less fortunate citizens.	I thank you for this opportunity to be here.  I wish your good work all success.Jai Hind.
