"I am happy to release a commemorative stamp in memory of Late Shri Krishan Kantji. He was a proud son of India and a soldier in our struggle for independence who rose to become one of our most distinguished national leaders. Hailing from a family of freedom fighters, he was deeply influenced by the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and Panditji. His parents Lala Achint Ramji and Mata Satya Vatiji, were inspired by the ideals of our freedom movement and actively participated in it. They set for young Krishan Kant an example of service and sacrifice that he sought to emulate. Mata Satya Vatiji is a living example of that great tradition which moulded the personality of Krishan Kantji and shaped his consciousness, outlook and approach to life and politics. Her august presence here makes this a special occasion for all of us. Having been brought up in an environment of high idealism, Krishan Kantji courted arrest during the Quit India Movement. Mata Satya Vatiji inspired him to make sacrifices in the service of the Nation. The late Krishan Kantji's study of science moulded his approach to life. He represented the true spirit of liberalism and scientific temper and humanism. This background encouraged him, in later life, to contribute to efforts for popularizing science among legislators and others. Krishan Kantji would often contribute articles on science and society to a journal that Panditji edited, called "Science and Parliament". Krishan Kantji shared Panditji's passion for science and his commitment to make use of it in the interest of society. In the early 1960s, he founded the Indian Parliamentary Scientific Committee. It is instructive to note that Krishan Kantji was also a member of the Science and Spirituality Committee of the All India Sarva Seva Sangh and strongly advocated the integration of both science and spirituality. As the Convener of the Study Group on Science Education in Schools, he made important contributions for promotion of science education among school children. He was an enlightened Parliamentarian and played a valuable role in both the Houses of Parliament, distinguishing himself in many respects. Adept at marshalling facts in asking questions, Krishan Kantji used the Question Hour very effectively. In recognition of the sincerity and commitment with which he approached the Question Hour, he was hailed as "Question Kant"! As Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, Krishan Kantji strove hard to maintain its discipline and decorum and preserve its dignity. His poignant observation that "What you enact in Parliament today, shall be enacted and replayed over and over again, in towns and villages, factories and farms, schools and colleges and in every home and family" must be kept in mind while carrying out our duties as Parliamentarians. Krishan Kantji was also deeply committed to electoral reform, often making the point that the success of our democracy rests on the way we maintain the purity and integrity of the electoral process. He was deeply disturbed about the growing criminalization of politics in our public life. Krishan Kantji's ideas about the way we can stop criminal elements from contesting elections and ways to eliminate the influence of money and muscle power in the electoral process remain relevant even today. Krishan Kantji's popularity across party political lines also owed a lot to his simplicity and vitality. I am sure he owed this in part due to the influence of his mother Mata Satya Vatiji. Mata Satya Vatiji is among the oldest living freedom fighters who only recently completed hundred years of her life. Every year on the birth anniversary of Krishan Kantji, she would present him with clothes woven from cotton she spun on her charkha. Krishan Kantji's father Lala Achint Ram ji was a prominent freedom fighter who had the distinction of being a founder-member of the Servant of People's Society along with the Punjab-Kesari Lala Lajpat Rai. I am heartened to learn that the Society, which undertook humanitarian work under the leadership of Krishan Kantji, is continuing that tradition under the leadership of Shri Gujralji and Manubhaiji. I am happy that the Department of Posts is issuing a postage stamp in his honour and memory. Apart from its philatelic value, this stamp will be valued as a tribute to the memory of a great son of India, a great freedom fighter, a learned and committed Parliamentarian and a distinguished Vice President of our country. I compliment the Department of Posts for his gesture."
