	Mr. Chairman, Sir, at the outset, I would like to join other Members of this House in conveying our grateful thanks to respected Rashtrapati for her thoughtprovoking Address. I am also very grateful to Shri Arun Jaitley, Leaders of other political parties and all Members who have given their valuable comments on the President's Address. In particular, I would like to congratulate Shri Arun Jaitley. This was his first speech as Leader of the Opposition. I apologise to him that because of my pre-occupation in the other House, I was not present when he spoke. He is a distinguished Parliamentarian who has made a mark for himself and I look forward to working very closely with Shri Arun Jaitley in smooth functioning of this august House.
	 
	Mr. Chairman, Sir, the President's Address is a broad indication of the overall strategy of development, security relations, Foreign Policy relations that our Government wishes to pursue in this five year period for which we have got a mandate. Let me say at the very outset that in accepting this mandate in all humility, I take note of what Shri Arun Jaitley said that there is no scope for arrogance. It is an awesome responsibility. In carrying it out, we need the cooperation of all sections of this House.
	 
	I am very happy that this Session has begun on a very happy note. The unanimous election of the Speaker and the hon. Deputy Speaker augurs well for the working of Parliament, and I sincerely hope that every party and every individual in this House will cooperate with us in ensuring that Parliament functions smoothly, that it is the highest forum for reason, dialogue, debate and deliberation.
	 
	Sir, I was saying that the President's Address is a broad indication of the overall strategies of governance that our Government wishes to pursue. What is the most basic problem of our country? My thoughts go back to Jawaharlal Nehru's first statement on the 14th of August midnight when he said that our task will not be complete till we have abolished mass poverty from our country. Since 1947, important steps have been taken to reduce the incidence of poverty. The incidence of poverty, which was over 50 per cent until the late 70s, has come down, and, according to the indicators given by the Planning Commission and according to the definition adopted by our Planning Commission, the proportion of people below the poverty line has gone down to 27.5 per cent even though we have no reliable data after 2004-05. My own feeling is that it is going down, whether it is 27 per cent or something like that Shri N.K. Singh said that we should appoint another Commission to enumerate, to find out the extent of poverty. That is a worthwhile suggestion but if we ought to wait for the findings of that sort of Commission, well our term will be nearly over. So, I think, we know the rough dimensions of the problem even though there can be quibbling about the precise figure. The very fact that even after sixty years of this Republic of ours, there are about 27.5 per cent of people below the poverty line is a matter of deep concern and it is our solemn duty to do everything possible to see that this poverty comes down and comes down steeply in the next five years so that within a single generation we should get rid of chronic poverty, ignorance and disease which still afflict millions and millions of people in our country.
	 
	Sir, how do we deal with the problem of mass poverty? I have often said and I repeat that meaningful solutions to the problem of mass poverty that prevails in our country can be found only in the framework of a rapidly expanding economy. It is only a rapidly expanding economy which provides, which can provide jobs on a sufficient scale to take care of the growing requirements of our labour force. It is a rapidly expanding economy which can generate resources, which can then be devoted to programmes of education, programmes of health, programmes of rural development, programmes of irrigation, social welfare programmes, National Rural Health Mission, Urban Renewable Mission. All these are vital components of a coherent development strategy, but to succeed, we need resources and resources can be generated only through the mechanism of an expanding economy, expanding fast enough.
	 
	In the last five years, our economy has grown at an average rate of 8.6 per cent. In the first four years, the average was close to nine per cent. Then came the international slowdown and our growth rate was affected. This year, it seems, that under the impact of the global economic crisis, our economy will be growing still at a fast rate, not at nine per cent but at seven per cent. As I see our challenge, it is to raise the growth rate in the next two three years, back to nine per cent per annum. It is not easy when the international climate is so unfavourable, when exports are seriously affected, when capital inflows are also affected, but I still believe that we have the capacity, on our own, to work for a growth rate of eight to nine per cent in spite of the global slowdown. Why do I say this? When I look at India's savings and investment figures, as per the latest figures that I see, the savings rate in our country is about 35 per cent. And with that sort of domestic savings rate, even with a small amount of international capital flowing in, with about 37 per cent of investment being sustained by domestic savings and reasonable capital inflows, it should be possible to sustain a growth rate of about eight to nine percent, and that is the challenge that we have to face as a Government, because our commitment to social development can become a reality; Our ability to put more resources into the social sector, whether it is food security, whether it is energy security, education security, health security all this is dependent on our ability to grow and grow faster.
	 
	I take pride in the fact that today we have solid programmes in place which take care of the social dimensions of our development problems. National Rural Employment Guarantee Act now covers all districts of our country. It puts a floor on rural poverty because if every family takes advantage of the 100 days' employment offered with an average wage rate of about Rs. 80, which is now about 80 per cent, each family is provided with about Rs. 8000 of income per annum. I am not saying, this can abolish poverty, but it does soften the harsh edges of extreme poverty in a manner which was not the case before the implementation of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.
	 
	There is the Bharat Nirman Programme, designed to build rural infrastructure, consisting of irrigation, rural roads, safe drinking water, housing, electricity and telephone connectivity. I think some Members have referred to the loopholes, the weaknesses, the rural roads programme, but everyone has agreed that this is a programme which needs to be pursued with renewed vigour. Then there is the Rural Health Mission which seeks to reach out to the rural areas with matters relating to delivery of health services. The programme is relatively new, for it has been operational only for about three years, but the initial results certainly are encouraging and I have been told, though that is not a published figure, that partly as a result, the maternal death rate will show a decline when the latest figures are published. In the same way, Sir, Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission seeks to upgrade the urban infrastructure in 63 major cities of our country.
	 
	This is a programme which is well designed which has been commented upon favourably and if resources are available it should be expanded. Then there is the Sarva Siksha Abhiyan and follow up by the Secondary Education Programme which we have launched in this Five Year Plan. If this programme succeeds, illiteracy would certainly be a thing of the past.
	 
	Now, I come to the Integrated Child Development Scheme. We all have been worried about the extent of mal-nutrition among ourpregnant women and among our children. The ICDS Programme was designed to meet that challenge. There have been contradictory reports. But I will be the first one to deny that there are no loopholes or weaknesses in the functioning of this programme. We have provided resources. But as to how these resources ought to be spent, I think, is something which requires a fresh look.
	 
	Then the last four or five years, we have strengthened social security arrangements for workers in the unorganized sector - Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana, provision of pensions to widows and people below the poverty line. I believe, all these arrangements can be and should be expanded. But once again this is a function of availability of resources. Several Members in this House as well as the other House have drawn our attention to the needs of backward areas. I sincerely believe that we have today instruments to take care of the problems of backward areas. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, I think, confers the largest benefit on most populous and yet most backward parts of our country like Bihar, Orissa and other States. In the same way, the Backward Areas Grant Fund which now covers 250 districts, I think, pays predominant attention to States like Bihar, States like Orissa and other backward States. We could certainly expand the programme. Nobody denies the need for accelerated development in the State of Bihar; nobody denies the need for accelerated development in the State of Orissa and other similarly placed States. But, I think, the essential condition is that we should have the resources to meet the challenge in all these areas. At the same time, there is a vast scope for improving the effectiveness of flagship programmes. Better outcomes from given outlays can be secured by increased involvement of Panchayati Raj Institutions, civil society groups and women in their implementation and that is the agenda for improved governance that we have placed before this august House. We are not saying that this is the only means to plug leakages. Shri Janeshwar Mishra is not here. He referred to the need of reforming the bureaucracy and of controlling corruption. Shri Arun Shourie also said that the word 'corruption' was absent from the President's Speech. But it is not far away from my thoughts. I do know that many development programmes suffer from many leakages which need to be curbed and if they can be curbed even with given resources, I think, we can give better results and that will be our effort to deal with the situation as we face them.
	 
	Finally, Sir, the point of critical importance to the functioning of development processes in our country is the empowerment of our women for realizing our vision of a truly integrated economy and polity. It is also important to ensure that hitherto marginalised groups such as Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes and minorities derive adequate and equitable benefit from the processes of social and economic change.
	 
	I think, Shri Arun Shourie was unhappy with our reference to covering the minorities under the various social and economic development programmes. But, I wish to point out to him that the history of our country has been one where people suffered deprivation as a group, whether they be Scheduled Castes or minority, and so, we can't be indifferent to that hard reality of our country. We need to work through the processes of development to dissolve those differences. I, therefore, believe that equal educational and economic opportunities alone would enable people to create new identities. That is the motivation behind the programmes for minorities' well-being that has been referred in the Prime Minister 15-Point Programme and subsequently, in the President's Address.
	 
	Mr. Chairman, Sir, Shri Arun Jaitley brought attention to the fact that where are the resources for these programmes going to come from. He referred to the high fiscal deficit which limits the scope for further expansion of public expenditure. I do agree with him that the fiscal deficit, as it has emerged, is high. But, I also submit to him that looking around all over the world, I think this is one year in which no country, serious country, in the world is paying attention to the fiscal deficit, as we traditionally understand it, and that the whole world is now thinking in terms of expanding opportunities for growth of output and employment through purposeful public intervention and that is what I believe we should do, but we should do so with caution, with due care and, as the President's Address points out, our goal is high growth and low inflation. I do believe that despite the fiscal deficit being high by available standards, this is the year in which there is some additional scope for further expanding public investment, particularly in infrastructure sector where our needs are enormous. At the same time, it is very essential that along with this recourse to short-term additional expenditure, we should put in place a medium-term fiscal strategy which would ensure that the fiscal deficit in the medium-term will not get out of hand. This will be our effort in addressing the challenges that our economy faces in this difficult year in which, I think, the whole world economy is experiencing a global slowdown.
	 
	Shri Arun Jaitley also referred to the poor functioning of the National Highways Development Programme. And, I do agree with him that there have been some inadequacies in the implementation of that Programme. We will address them as effectively as we can in months and years that lie ahead. Coming to the issues of foreign policy, I think Shri Arun Jaitley drew my attention to the non-mention of the problems that are emerging in Australia. In this context, I would like to point out that I do agree that our students have been subject matter of unacceptable attacks in some parts of Australia.
	 
	Australia today has emerged as a major destination for Indian students. I have been appalled by the senseless violence and crime, some of it is racially motivated against our students in Australia. I propose to engage the authorities in Australia in a high-level dialogue with a view to taking stock of the situation and to provide adequate security for our students.
	 
	In this context, I would like to mention to the hon. House that I have already spoken to the Prime Minister Kevin Rudd on this subject. He assured me that any racist attacks on Indian students would be strongly dealt with. He made a statement in the Parliament in which he condemned and deplored the attacks and said that they were unacceptable. He emphasized that Australia is a multi-cultural nation, which respects and embraces diversity. He said that these would be countered with the full force of the law. I do not wish to underplay or minimise the anxieties of the parents of our students but I wish to request the media to be mindful of the fact that there are over 2,00,000 Australian citizens of Indian origin. We should be mindful of their interests and avoid creating a situation where they become the target of racist intolerance.
	 
	India and Australia have very good relations and it has been our effort to widen and deepen these ties in the last five years.
	 
	Sir, Shri Arun Shourie referred to the problems that we have with Pakistan. He questioned our understanding of the nature of the Pakistan State, whether it is sufficiently embedded into our thinking or not. Let me mention to him respectfully that Pakistan is our neighbour. We can choose our friends but we have to live with neighbours as we get them. When I look at the history of the modern world, I look at the relations between the United States and Iran. I think, they have gone through difficult periods extending over the last thirty years, but, ultimately, even a mighty power like the United States have found that it is necessary to come to terms with the reality of the Iranian situation, and, therefore, there is no other alternative but to pursue the path of dialogue.
	 
	It is in the same context, Sir, that I would say that I have a vision for a transformed South Asia where with the cooperation of all our neighbours, we move from poverty to prosperity, from ignorance to a knowledge-society, and, from security to lasting peace.
	 
	I sincerely believe that India cannot realise its development ambition or its ambition of being a great power, if our neighbourhood remains disturbed as it is, and, therefore, it is in our interest to work with all neighbouring countries to ensure a peaceful neighbourhood. What is at stake, Sir, is the future of one and a half billion people of humanity. I sincerely believe that it is in our vital interest, therefore, to try again to make peace with Pakistan. But I recognize that it takes two hands to clap. I sincerely hope that the Government of Pakistan will create an atmosphere in which we can realise this vision.
	 
	I expect the Government of Pakistan to take strong, effective and sustained actions to prevent the use of their territory for the commission of acts of terrorism in India or against Indian interest, and, use every means at their disposal to bring to justice those who have committed these crimes in the past including the attack on Mumbai. I believe that such actions will be welcomed by the people of both countries. If the leaders of Pakistan have the courage, the determination and statesmanship to take this road to peace, I wish to assure them that we will meet them more than half-way.
	 
	Sir, in this House references were made to the Tamil problem in Sri Lanka. We have been grappling with that problem for the last five years. And, I know what is at stake with all of us. We have centuries old ties with the people of Sri Lanka and we have an abiding interest in the well being of the Tamil population in that country. The Tamil problem is much bigger and much larger than the LTTE problem, and I sincerely hope that the Sri Lankan Government will show due imagination and courage in meeting the legitimate concerns and aspirations of the Tamil people to live their lives as equal citizens and with dignity and self-respect. We have been taking an active part in the relief and rehabilitation of the internally-displaced persons in Sri Lanka. We have already earmarked Rs. 500 crores for this purpose. We are willing to do more to restore normalcy and to return such people to their rightful homes and occupations.
	 
	Sir, there has been concern about internal security, the menace of terrorism, the menace of Left Wing Extremism. I would be the last one to say that if these activities are not under control, our economic vision will not get affected. If terrorism is not under control and if some important parts of our country in Central India are the victims of Left Wing Extremism, I think that can have a serious adverse effect on the climate for investment or the climate for development. Therefore, we will do all that we can to deal with these menaces of terrorism, aided and abetted from abroad as well as Left Wing Extremism.
	 
	I should like to inform the House about the several steps that have been taken since November 2008 to further tighten our vigilance against future terrorist attacks of this nature. As Members are aware, the perpetrators of November 26 attack came by sea. We were well aware of our vulnerability to such attacks from this quarter and had already taken a number of steps, but obviously these steps were not adequate. A massive effort has hence been undertaken to streamline our maritime security, which included the setting up of a Maritime Command under the Coastal Guard with overall responsibility vested in our Navy. We have increased the number of marine police stations to supplement the efforts of the Coast Guard and the Navy.
	 
	Sir, there have been several other steps that have been taken, but I shall enumerate only a few. Improvement in intelligence sharing is one. The multi agency centre has been fully energized and subsidiary multi agency centres constituted in more States. The process will be completed shortly. A net-centric information command structure is being set up to achieve online transfer of all actionable intelligence in a streamlined manner. I take note of the problem that arises with the institution of this net-centric information centre. Shri Arun Shourie pointed out to some drawbacks and vulnerability. I am sure our security agencies will take note of the comments that he has made. Generation of actionable intelligence has simultaneously been given priority and measures put in place for this purpose. Technical innovation and technical support to intelligence production have been given the highest priority. Steps have also been taken to improve the quality of intelligence analysis.
	 
	Investigation into serious terrorist offences will from now on be the responsibility of the newly constituted National Investigation Agency. Additional legal measures taken include, apart from the new NIA Act, significant amendments to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Home Minister is in constant dialogue with the Chief Ministers of States keeping them informed of specific aspects of the two new pieces of legislation.
	 
	Following the terrorist attack in Mumbai on 26th November, the imperative necessity to have dedicated counter-terrorist forces has been further enforced. The National Security Guard is the principal counter-terrorist force in the country. A major effort has been made to improve its capabilities, including better mobility and state-of-the-art equipment. At least, four new NSG hubs are being set up in different parts of the country. In addition, other dedicated counter-terrorist forces are sought to be created.
	 
	Similarly, Sir, with regard to Left Wing Extremism, I should briefly mention the strategy that is being adopted. While appreciating that many of the crimes committed by Left Wing Extremism fall in the domain of the State Government, the Central Government will orchestrate coordinated action. Extremist movements feed on the disaffection of tribes and forest dwellers who still often face denial of access to natural resources and equal development opportunities. I had mentioned in the other House and I would like to repeat it here. We have several programmes of tribal development. But they do not seem to have made the desired impact and this whole area, therefore, calls for a fresh review to end centuries old inequity that I think has been the inevitable lot of a large number of tribal communities over the years.
	 
	We will undertake a thorough review of the development programme and see how they can be revitalized and also ensure that we put some of the best motivated officials in charge of development programmes in the tribal areas.
	 
	The two-pronged strategy of stern action against acts of violence along with concrete action to restore access to natural resources and development opportunities will continue. The Forest Rights Act to give land under their historical position to tribes and other traditional forest dwellers was an effort to address one of the systemic causes of alienation of these communities.
	 
	The Amendment to the Land Acquisition Bill and the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill now under consideration of this House is another effort to ensure that people are not displaced without adequate compensation and improved life opportunities. It is our hope that we will be able to enact these legislations in this Session.
	 
	Mr. Chairman, Sir, I have indicated the broad contours of development policy, the security policies, and the foreign policy. I know that there are several Members who referred to the cyclone Aila in West Bengal. We are all grieved at the loss of human lives, destruction of houses and property. A Central team is already visiting that area. The House has my assurance that the Central Government will do everything in its power to provide purposeful relief and rehabilitation to the Government of West Bengal. I myself have been in touch with the hon. Chief Minister of West Bengal and there will be no laxity in meeting the relief and rehabilitation needs of the people of the cyclone affected areas in West Bengal.
	 
	Sir, I could go on, but there is limited time, and I believe that I have covered some of the broad concerns that have been raised in this House. Shri Arun Shourie drew our attention to the problems in the field of Defence, the cost overrun, and the time overrun. I believe there will be opportunities to debate these issues in detail when demands of the Ministry of Defence come for review in this august House.
	 
	So, I will not spend more time of this House. With these words, I, once again, express my sincere gratitude to the hon. President for her thoughtful Address and, I hope, this august House will pass the Motion of Thanks unanimously.
	 
	 
	 
