I have completed two very productive days of meetings at the 7th India-ASEAN Summit and the 4th East Asia Summit. I am extremely satisfied with the outcome of the India-ASEAN Summit. I found a strong desire among the ASEAN countries to substantially strengthen their links with India in all areas. This includes not only economic cooperation and trade but also science and technology, human resource development, protection of the environment and deeper political and security cooperation. The conclusion of the India-ASEAN Trade in Goods Agreement is a concrete step forward in the process of India's integration with South East Asia. As a follow up to this Agreement, we have agreed to expedite the finalization of the Agreement on Trade in Services and Investment.The ASEAN countries were deeply appreciative of the fresh initiatives announced by India, notably the establishment of an India-ASEAN Round Table, the preparation of a Vision Statement for our relations till the year 2020, marking of commemorative events in 2012, and our offer of assistance of upto 50 million US dollars to fund various projects under the ASEAN Work Plan for the period 2009-2015. At the East Asia Summit, I shared our vision of an Asian Economic Community that is based on an open and inclusive regional architecture. The EAS countries recognize the impact of India's socio-economic transformation on the reshaping of the global economic order, and the opportunities this has for accelerating Asia's own growth. I reiterated India's commitment to the success of international efforts to combat climate change, the urgent need to collaborate in the research and development of renewable energy technologies, the need for Asia to focus on food security and disaster management, all of which are key to finding a path to sustainable development. There was agreement that the issues of terrorism and non-traditional threats to security have to be addressed with resolve and firmness. The EAS Leaders' endorsement of the Nalanda University project which is to be located in Bihar is a matter of deep satisfaction. We intend to move forward with the next steps to establish the Nalanda University as a centre of excellence in education and international understanding. I had very useful meetings with the leaders of China, Japan, Thailand, Cambodia, Singapore and Vietnam, and I will shortly be meeting the President of Indonesia. These meetings reflect our desire to build a set of cooperative partnerships in the Asia-Pacific region, and to play our rightful role in establishing peace, prosperity and stability in Asia. I return back to India convinced that there is tremendous goodwill for India in South East and East Asia, and therefore the sky is the limit for our engagement with this region.
