Thank you for the warm words of welcome and for the generous hospitality you have accorded to me and to my delegation.  It is always a pleasure to be back in your great country to renew the bonds of our old friendship. Excellency,	We deeply value your strong personal commitment to India - Russia relations.  My visit marks the culmination of one year of intensive engagement between India and Russia that followed your historic visit to India last year.I have come to Russia with a message of warmth, goodwill and friendship from the people of India.Excellency,The rapid transformation of India and the emergence of a new Russia hold great promise and potential for our future cooperation. The talks we held today reflect the depth and range of our relations. We discussed aspects of our traditionally strong cooperation in frontline technology areas such as space and nuclear energy.  Our strong defence relationship reflects the trust and confidence we have in each other.  Excellency,Our people are known for their skills, creativity and enterprise. Our industries are key players in important sectors of the global economy. We should be doing more business with each other. I call upon our business leaders to create a new and bold vision for our economic partnership. The governments will facilitate this in every possible way. Excellency,The similarity in our world views is a strong pillar of our friendship. Cooperation between India and Russia in international forums like the United Nations and the G-20 is an important factor in addressing key global challenges and in shaping a world order that promotes our common prosperity and security. Terrorism is one such challenge. It threatens our pluralistic and democratic societies. We have agreed to expand our cooperation to tackle this threat in the region and beyond.    Excellency,The Year of India in Russia and the Year of Russia in India were great successes.  We should pursue more such initiatives, particularly those focused on our youth. We should pass on the mutual admiration we have for each others' traditions and culture to the coming generations. Excellency,I am confident that under your dynamic and mature leadership, India and Russia will reach even greater heights in building a strategic partnership of enduring friendship and cooperation.Excellencies, May I now request you to join me in raising a toast to: - 	The health and well being of His Excellency Mr. Dmitry Medvedev, President of the Russian Federation and Mrs. Medvedeva; - 	The close and abiding friendship between India and Russia; and - 	The prosperity, success and happiness of the friendly people of Russia.
