I am very happy to be here today to launch the Scholarship Fund of the Council for Higher Education set up by the Government of Kerala. I commend the Government of Kerala and the Council for this initiative that is intended to ensure that no student in the State is denied the opportunity for higher education for want of financial support. This will be a very prestigious scholarship and I am happy that the Government of Kerala has instituted the Fund with the support of many eminent citizens as contributors.
	 
	I myself was a recipient of such benevolence during my years in college and university. I know how precious such opportunities are to meritorious students who are determined to pursue higher studies but often lack the means to do so.
	 
	I congratulate each and every one of the scholarship winners. We have high expectations of each one of you and I am confident that you will redeem the trust and responsibility that has been placed on your young shoulders. As you progress and prosper in your life and career, you should look for ways to return something to the community that has supported and nurtured your talent.
	 
	 
	Kerala is the most literate state in the country. There is much that other states can learn about how to promote education both in basic disciplines as well as in vocational courses. Kerala is the nerve centre of our space programme and has produced many distinguished scientists and engineers. It was only fitting that the Government of India established the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology in Kerala. This institute will produce the next generation of our space scientists and engineers and we hope that it will emerge as a centre of global excellence.
	 
	We are working hard to revolutionise our higher education system. We want to make India one of the premier centers of education that it once was. One of our initiatives is to establish the Nalanda University that will revive India's ancient academic and intellectual links with East Asia. I am sure that the new Central University in Kerala can be similarly developed as a university of renown that serves as an intellectual bridge with the countries of the Middle East.
	 
	These universities however cannot become world class centers of learning unless we change the way in which we manage them. They should create an atmosphere where intellectual inquiry, originality and ingenuity are encouraged rather than academic rote. They have to be given the maximum academic freedom and the flexibility. They should be able to recruit the best teachers, including the many Indians in top universities abroad.
	 
	I am happy that the scholarships will be granted to students for study and research in the basic disciplines. The Government of India is concerned at the declining interest among students in basic sciences. This is a disturbing trend and we have tried to reverse it through innovative schemes such as INSPIRE, which stands for Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research. This scheme is unprecedented in its scale and will provide scholarships of Rs. 5,000 to one million young learners in the age group of 10-15 years who show talent for science. The scheme provides funding for the entire education chain right upto the research level. I hope that these initiatives will be complemented by similar efforts of the States such as the Fund that is being inaugurated today.
	 
	I am optimistic of the future of the state of Kerala and of the country. Our youth are showing the way forward and making waves around the world whether it is in academics, entertainment, sports or business. I once again wish the scholarship winners all the very best and thank the Government of Kerala for inviting me to this function.
	 
	Jai Hind !
	 
	 
