I am delighted to have this opportunity to meet you all today. You represent a microcosm of the 1.8 million Indians in Saudi Arabia. To each and everyone of them who are not present today, in Jeddah or Dammam, Mecca or Medina, I convey my greetings. I would like them to know that India is proud of them and their achievements. During my stay in the Kingdom, I have heard universal praise from the Saudi leadership about your contribution to the economic, social and technological progress of Saudi Arabia. There is hardly a major project in Saudi Arabia or for that matter in the entire Gulf region that has not seen a contribution of some kind by Indian professionals and workers. This is a matter of pride for you, but it is also something which makes all of India proud. I heartily congratulate you and your families for your remarkable successes.The fact that Indians are the largest overseas community in Saudi Arabia is proof of the respect you have earned. It shows the confidence the Government and people of Saudi Arabia have in your work.The reasons for this go beyond the fact that the Indian community is well educated, hard-working and honest. What is special and unique are the values that every Indian stands for. These values are the product of a 5000 year old civilisation and each Indian is proud of them. An Indian, more than anyone else, knows the meaning of respecting the other's beliefs, customs and faiths. Pluralism and diversity are second nature to us. All this makes us tolerant and naturally inclined to harmonious and peaceful co-existence. I have no doubt that you reflect these lofty values in your workplaces, in your homes and in your social interactions. I am only the third Indian Prime Minister to visit the Kingdom. Yet, I feel the same way as His Majesty King Abdullah felt when he was in India four years ago - that I have come to my second home. During my stay, I have seen enormous goodwill and warmth for India. Our relations with the Kingdom go back several millennia. We have influenced each other in all aspects of daily life. We belong to the same extended neighbourhood. Today Saudi Arabia is a principal source of our energy requirements. It is home to our largest overseas community, and several thousands of our pilgrims come for the Haj and Umrah every year. Our ties are therefore extremely important and of regional and global significance.During our discussions, His Majesty King Abdullah and I have decided to impart a strategic character to our relations. We have agreed to build a meaningful and substantive partnership and to expand our cooperation in all fields. I have no doubt that the fruits of this will be felt in the coming years.Our government has taken a conscious decision to strengthen India's relations with the entire Gulf region. This is a region with huge potential. Prosperity and stability in this part of the world has opened vast opportunities for Indian experts, professionals and workers. Indian companies are investing in the region, and contributing to its economic development. We also welcome Saudi investments into India, and will actively encourage it. We are extremely happy that many Saudi students are coming to India for education under the King Abdullah Scholarship Programme.India is opening up to the rest of the world. Despite the global economic slowdown, our economy will grow at 7.5 per cent this year. But this is not enough, and we aim much higher. There is a new dynamism within the country and there is a common belief that the future belongs to India. Our Government is investing heavily in the infrastructure, education, health and agriculture sectors to reach the benefits of growth to all sections of society. The contribution you are making by way of remittances worth several billions of dollars is fuelling the resurgence of India. Like any other country, India also faces challenges. But we are equipped to deal with them. We will not allow the forces of extremism and terrorism to disrupt the fabric of our society. Secularism and respect for all religions and faiths is the bedrock of our Constitution. We will protect the rights of all segments of our society. I am aware of some of the difficulties you face here. I want to assure you that your welfare and well-being is a matter of high priority for our government. The Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs was created specifically to focus on these issues. A number of steps have been taken in the last five years for the welfare of our overseas communities.Our Embassy and our Consulate in Jeddah are working proactively to respond promptly and sympathetically to the concerns of the community, particularly the most vulnerable among them. Complaints received from workers are taken up with sponsors, and, whenever necessary, with the Saudi authorities. An Indian Community Welfare Fund has been set up in November 2009. We are in regular contact with the Saudi authorities to ensure that redressal mechanisms function well and are effective. I however recognise that there is always scope for improvement. I assure you that we will give most serious consideration to any suggestions you may have. I invite you to come forward with your ideas and proposals. I am returning back to India confident that our relations with Saudi Arabia have been placed on a sound footing. I wish you all even greater success, prosperity and fulfillment.Thank you.
