Mr. Chairman Sir, I should begin by expressing my deep sorrow over some abnormal developments that took place in this House in the last two days. Mr. Chairman, on behalf of our Government I owe you a profound apology on the disrespect that was shown to you and the office bearers. These things should never have happened. They have happened and we have to reflect as to how we can streamline our functioning in future so that these things don't take place. Mr. Chairman, despite these abnormal developments the unanimity or near unanimity that has beendisplayed while considering this landmark legislation is a living proof that the health of Indian democracy is sound and is in the right place.I, therefore, congratulate the hon. Leader of the Opposition, the leaders of all other political parties whose cooperation has made it possible for us to enact a truly historic legislation. This is a momentous development in the long journey of empowering our women. Mr. Chairman Sir, that process began with the freedom. When it dawned, our leaders had the wisdom to give all persons, men and women of the age of 21 years the voting rights. Subsequently, Shri Rajivji, lowered the voting age to 18 years. But, we have also to recognize that despite various efforts that have been made in Independent India for social and economic development, our women have faced enormous difficulties even when we talk in terms of the benefits of the processes of social and economic development. Our women face discrimination at home. There is domestic violence. They face discrimination in their unequal access to education, in healthcare. All these things have to end if India is to realize the full potential of its social and economic development. The Bill that is going to be passed today is a historic step forward, is a giant step forward in strengthening the process of emancipation of India's womanhood. It is a celebration of our womanhood. It is a celebration of India's regard and respect in our ancient culture and civilization for our women.It is a great remembrance of all those brave women who fought for India's Independence. On this occasion, my thoughts go to Kasturba Mata, Dr. Annie Besant, Smt. Kamla Nehru, Smt. Sarojni Naidu, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Smt. Vijayalakshmi Pandit, Smt. Indira Gandhi. All these brave daughters of India havefought and contributed enormously to the success of our freedom struggle. What we are going to enact today is a small token of our homage to the sacrifices that our women have made in the processes of nation building, freedom struggle and all other nation building activities. I recall also the contribution of late Smt. Gita Mukherjee. She was the Chairperson of the Standing Committee which reported on the first Bill that came before Parliament. I also thank Smt. Jayanti Natarajan, the Chairperson of the Standing Committee, which processed this important Bill.Sir, some hon. Members have expressed some reservations that they would have liked to see some recognition of disabilities of the Minorities, the disabilities of backward classes, of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. I do recall and I do recognize that our Minorities have not got an adequate share of the fruits of our development.Our Government is committed to work sincerely for the empowerment of our minority communities. There are many other ways. The process has already begun. We will attend to this task with all sincerity. This Bill is not an anti-minority Bill; it is not an anti-Scheduled Castes Bill; it is not an anti-Scheduled Tribes Bill. It is a Bill that carries forward the process of emancipation of our women. It is a major and a giant step forward.It is a historic occasion that calls for celebration. I thank each one of the Members of this august House. I also thank, Mr. Chairman, your good self and Mr. Deputy Chairman for your enormous contribution. At the end of the acrimonious events, it is the ending that matters. As somebody has said, "Aagaz ko koi puchta nahi, Anjam achcha hua hi hoga". So, with these words, once again, I express my joy that we are going to enact this very historic, path-breaking legislation.
