We are delighted to have in our midst today a great friend of India, His Excellency Prime Minister Putin of Russia.  We attach the highest importance to his visit.  Prime Minister Putin has been the architect of the strategic partnership between India and Russia, and we owe a deep sense of gratitude to him for bringing our two countries so close to each other.We have just concluded very comprehensive and indepth discussions on bilateral, regional and global matters.  I conveyed to Prime Minister Putin that relations with Russia are a key pillar of our foreign policy, and we regard Russia as a trusted and reliable strategic partner.  Ours is a relationship that not only stands independent of any other, but whose significance has grown over time.  Our partnership covers areas such as defence, civil nuclear energy, space, science and technology, hydrocarbons and trade and investment. In the run-up to, and during Prime Minister Putin's visit, we have finalised several important and long pending defence cooperation projects which will deepen our longstanding partnership in this sector.  We have signed the Inter-Governmental Agreement on Cooperation in Atomic Energy and agreed upon a Roadmap for construction of nuclear power plants.  A Memorandum of Understanding for bilateral cooperation in Russia's satellite navigation system has been agreed upon.We have agreed to strengthen our cooperation in hydrocarbons through greater collaboration between our oil and gas companies.  Agreements have been signed in the areas of fertilisers and pharmaceuticals.  We have identified information technology and telecommunications as focus areas for our future economic cooperation.The outcomes of Prime Minister Putin's visit are therefore rich and very substantive.We had a detailed discussion on regional and global issues.  There is much that India and Russia can do together to advance global peace and stability and the process of global economic revival.  We have agreed to intensify our consultations on Afghanistan and the challenges posed by terrorism and extremism in our region.  I am happy to state that my discussions with Prime Minister Putin have reinforced the strong ties of friendship that bind our two countries. Thank you.
