The Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh, today released a set of four commemorative stamps on 'Dandi March' to mark the 75th anniversary of the epic event. The Chairperson of the National Advisory Council, Smt. Sonia Gandhi, was also present on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, The Prime Minister said:"It is a rare honour and privilege for us to be here today to mark the 75th anniversary of Gandhiji's 'Dandi March' by releasing a set of four commemorative stamps. Holding up a fist of salt from the soil of Mother India, Gandhiji made British Rule unpalatable. It was a historic moment in the creation of free India.I salute our patriotic ancestors for the heroism they showed at Dandi. I salute Mahatma Gandhi for the courage of his conviction and the power of his symbolism. The Dandi March was not only a march for Independence. It was also a march for the upliftment of the poorest of the poor; the emancipation of women and their empowerment; the removal of untouchability; the assertion of the right of our people over the natural resources of which they are the inheritors and owners; the establishment of unity of people professing diverse faiths; and, above all, it was a march for our spiritual regeneration.During the March, a young Muslim youth asked Gandhiji 'Do you expect to win Swaraj through your single effort or assisted by the Hindus alone?' Gandhiji replied, 'I never dreamt that I could win Swaraj merely through my effort or assisted only by Hindus alone. I stand in need of the assistance of Mussalmans, Parsis, Christians, Sikhs, and all other Indians. I need the assistance even of Englishmen. The blessings of thousands of men and women belonging to all communities that have attended this March are to me visible sign of the hand of God in this struggle. ...I need help of all races and from all climes'.This is the memory of Dandi we must celebrate. It was a march of unity, of all Indians, irrespective of caste and religion, language and region. Gandhiji's broad minded approach remains today at the root of our concept of an inclusive society. By following his life and deeds and by recapturing the spirit of Dandi March we can build the India of Gandhiji's dream.Our national movement was a political movement and also a movement for the moral and spiritual regeneration of India. In celebrating the anniversary of the Dandi March we must remember that our leaders wanted to free us from foreign rule and from a mindset of dependence. They wanted each one of us to stand for our own rights and take pride in our being Indians, the children of Mother India.By recalling the heroism of our forefathers and the message of Bapu, we are today trying to re-discover the truth that Gandhiji pursued. The truth that there is dignity in labour; the truth that there is pride in freedom; the truth that we must have the courage to stand up for our principles; the truth that we must become self-reliant; the truth that we must learn to live with one and all in peace and harmony.I am proud that our Government is issuing these commemorative stamps on this occasion."
