I welcome you all to the first meeting of the National Committee for the commemoration of the 150th birth anniversary of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore. The establishment of a high-level Committee for this purpose reflects the serious commitment of the Government of India to commemorate this anniversary year in a befitting manner. We wish to use the occasion to rekindle interest in the life and works of Gurudev.
	 
	Even though Rabindranath Tagore received worldwide acclaim for his literary works, he was a multi-faceted genius who made important and pioneering contributions to different facets of Indian culture. He was a poet, an author, a composer, a superb visual artist and a philosopher.
	 
	I had the privilege of inaugurating an exhibition of Tagore's paintings at the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi two weeks back. I was humbled by the range and depth of the works that were displayed. I was surprised to learn that Tagore never had any formal training in art and yet was able to create such priceless treasures.
	 
	There are many less well known aspects of Gurudev's genius and we should focus on them as well in the events planned as part of the 150 Year Celebrations. Our tribute should reflect his complex and multi-layered personality and the different strands of his cultural genius.
	 
	For today's meeting we have circulated an Agenda and I hope that you have had time to reflect on some of the issues that have been flagged for discussions.
	 
	Many of the items in the agenda have been discussed in the first meeting of the National Implementation Committee chaired by Pranab ji and attended by the HRD and I&B Ministers.
	 
	We should use the occasion to create cultural institutions and structures that honour the memory of the great poet, and which have lasting value. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Education Minister, Prof. Humayun Kabir, had started a programme of building auditoria and cultural complexes that were named as Rabindra Rangashala, Rabindra Bhavan, Rabindra Manch, Tagore Centre and so on. In the 1960s and later in the 1970s, these were among the first visible cultural spaces of independent India.
	 
	I understand that the Implementation Committee, under the Finance Minister, is considering the upgradation of some of the older auditoria that were set up as part of the Tagore Centenary Celebrations. The Committee would also look into the possibility of establishing new auditoria in cities where there is a genuine need for such complexes.
	 
	We should ensure that these auditoriums and bhavans are aesthetically designed spaces and are worthy of being named after the great cultural icon that Tagore is. So, it would perhaps be a good idea to invite designs for these buildings through open national level competitions.
	 
	Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore belongs to the whole of India and indeed to all of mankind. Tagore's works have travelled all over the world and are read in different languages. I feel that we need to do more to translate his works into other languages. We should encourage translation of his works not only into Hindi and other Indian languages but also foreign languages. His message is very relevant today and can attract people of all persuasions and creeds.
	 
	I understand that the first set of proposals that have been received by the Committee have come mainly from West Bengal. I suggest that we encourage proposals from different corners of the country. I am sure that the members of the National Committee will also come forward with suggestions in this regard.
	 
	The Prime Minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina visited India in January this year. During her visit, we agreed that the Prime Ministers of India and Bangladesh would oversee the joint celebrations of the 150th Birth Anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore in 2011 in a manner befitting his vision and spirit. The Committee will have to consider how we could fulfill this commitment and how to associate Tagore's many followers in Bangladesh in these commemoration events.
	 
	Tagore thought deeply about rural development and regeneration. He experimented with his ideas at Sriniketan with the help of people like Leonard Elmhirst, William Pearson, C.F. Andrews and Kali Mohan Ghosh. In fact, he donated a part of his Nobel prize money for the development of the cooperative movement. We should encourage further study in some of these areas and see if his ideas could be developed into something concrete in today's circumstances.
	 
	Gurudev's experiments with alternate education, especially through his 'Patha Bhawan' in open sylvan surroundings, were remarkable. I would be happy if this commemoration highlights the relevance of his views on education.
	 
	We need to pay special attention to the University of his dreams, the Visva Bharati. The High Level Committee under the leadership of Shri Gopalkrishna Gandhi had made several suggestions. Government of India has released funds for the implementation of the recommendations. But we should go further and I would like the Committee to use its knowledge and experience to see how we can revive this historic institution and restore it to its former glory.
	 
	Rabindranath Tagore travelled to the farthest corners of the globe and is remembered with reverence and affection in many countries. We should involve our embassies in different countries to rekindle interest in Tagore and to build on these historic cultural links.
	 
	Ladies and gentlemen, with these few words I would like to conclude my opening remarks and we can now begin with the Agenda items.
	 
	Thank you.
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
