Today is a very special occasion for our country. We are all very happy and indeed very proud of the completion of our one of the world's largest airport terminals in a record time of 37 months. This airport terminal establishes new global bench marks. It also exemplifies our country's resolve to bridge and bridge fast enough the infrastructure deficit in our country.
	 
	This project gives us yet another reason for satisfaction. It proves the success of the Public Private Partnership model in execution of large infrastructure projects. It also proves our capacity to coordinate across agencies and governments and work as a united team. I am told that over 58 departments of government were involved in the construction of this terminal, apart from other stakeholders such as ground handling agencies and airlines. I congratulate my colleague Minister of Civil Aviation Shri Praful Patel, Chief Minister of Delhi, Shrimati Sheila Dikshit, Chairman, GMR Group, Shri G M Rao, Cabinet Secretary, Shri Chandrasekhar, Secretary, Civil Aviation and all other agencies and engineers, technicians, individuals associated with this project for their magnificent achievement.
	 
	The aviation sector is a vital to India's sustained economic growth. It plays a major role in generating tourist flow, accelerating industrial development, creating new jobs and integrating our country. In a span of a few years, India has become the 9th largest aviation market in the world. We now have 10 scheduled airlines operating in our country, compared to 2 in 1990. In the same period, the scheduled aircraft deployed by the Indian carriers has gone up four times, from 100 to about 400. It is estimated that India's aviation sector has the potential to absorb up to US$ 120 billion of investment by the year 2020. Analysts predict that domestic traffic can reach 160 to 180 million and international traffic in excess of 50 million by the year 2020. India also occupies an important geographical place in the air route structure of the world. Many key international air traffic services cross the air space in which India is responsible for providing air traffic services. Hub traffic out of Delhi and Mumbai will increase particularly in the coming years.
	 
	An airport is often the first introduction to a country. A good airport would signal the arrival of new India, committed to join the ranks of modern, industrialized nations of the world. We should have airports that are receptive to the comfort of passengers even as they meet the highest standards of efficiency and safety. They should employ the most modern of technologies but also exude cultural warmth.
	 
	Our government had launched a modernization and capacity expansion programme for major airports some years back. Today we see one of the successes of that creative initiative. The commissioning of this terminal will be a significant step forward in developing Delhi as a vital hub. It will encourage feeder traffic from the non-metro airports being developed by the Airports Authority of India.
	 
	We need to create safe, secure, efficient and environment friendly systems conducive to healthy growth of our civil aviation sector. Our regulatory and policy framework also needs to be aligned with the needs of the civil aviation industry to encourage serious investment in this vital sector. Our government is working to achieve these goals. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation is being strengthened. The Airport Economic Regulatory Authority has been set up as a regulator for the airport sector for monitoring issues like airport charges and service standards. We have made considerable progress in this regard. To give an example, the Delhi airport has improved its rank sharply in terms of Air Service Quality (ASQ) performance, from 101 in 2007 to 21 in 2010. After the opening of this new terminal we are hopeful that the airport will shortly rank within the first 10 airports of the world.
	 
	I am very happy that as a part of this very ambitious project, high emphasis has been laid on developing green areas around the airport. I also understand that the terminal will use very high quality security systems. These will be a source of great comfort to airlines and the travelling passengers. I would suggest that all concerned agencies should now focus on improving passenger connectivity between the city and the airport to fully leverage the immense potential of this new terminal.
	 
	Let me end by once again emphasizing the need to rapidly improve our physical infrastructure. This is one area where we have been lagging behind but I am confident that in the time to come we will achieve much more than in the past. I hope to see many such successful projects in the future. This will be in keeping with our ambition, our aspirations and our new found confidence in recent years.
	 
	It gives me great pleasure to dedicate this magnificent terminal to the people of India.
