This has been a very fruitful discussion on Mid Term Appraisal (MTA) of the Eleventh Five Year Plan, in general, and in particular the five important issues that were identified, in particular. The sense of the discussions revealed a broad measure of agreement with the assessment and policy corrections suggested in the MTA. It is a suitable basis for initiating preparatory work on the Twelfth Five Year Plan. A number of very valuable remarks and suggestions have been made by the honourable Chief Ministers. The Planning Commission has taken cognisance of these remarks and suggestions, and will act on them in the coming months. One suggestion, in particular, which I am happy to accept state way is that an Action Taken Report should be prepared on the suggestions made in each NDC meeting and this report can be circulated prior to the next NDC meeting. I am happy to note that agriculture and irrigation were dealt with extensively in nearly all Chief Ministers' speeches. I heard many positive assessments of what is being done in individual States, to increase agriculture productivity. We need to bring in better technology to increase productivity. We need comprehensive reform of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Acts to attract private sector investment in agricultural infrastructure. We also need to facilitate intra and inter State free movement of agricultural commodities, particularly, the perishable agricultural products. Many Chief Ministers have referred to the need to strengthen the Public Distribution System (PDS) to prevent large-scale leakages and diversion of foodgrains, and have made suggestions in this regard. We also need to operationalise the proposed new Food Security Act as quickly as possible. I thank Chief Ministers for the many comments made on the issues and challenges posed by urbanisation. Several Chief Ministers suggested that we constitute a Committee of the NDC to go into the complex challenges of urbanisation and provide a new sense of direction to our future efforts. I propose to constitute a Sub-Committee of the National Development Council under the chairmanship of Shri S. Jaipal Reddy, Union Urban Development Minister, which would conduct an in-depth examination of these issues and present a report within a period of 12 months. This will be an input into the Twelfth Five Year Plan. The challenges posed by left wing extremism in parts of the country have been addressed by many Chief Ministers. I have taken note of these suggestions. The Planning Commission is working on an integrated programme of development for selected backward Districts which would help strengthen the developmental element in the fight against extremism, keeping in mind the suggestions made in our discussions. Issues concerning water resources were raised in many interventions. It is clear that we need to have an integrated approach in managing India's scarce water resources. I have asked the Planning Commission to prepare an integrated policy for water resource management which could be discussed in a future NDC meeting. Several Chief Ministers also touched on the problems associated with the power sector, but there was less focus than I had hoped on proposals aimed at reducing distribution losses. I would urge Chief Ministers to carefully consider the many suggestions in the Mid Term Assessment on this subject and try to implement them. Our colleague from Manipur, Chief Minister Ibobi Singh made very impassionately and I have taken note of the issues that he has raised and it is my hope and expectation that we will find an effective and pragmatic response to the various suggestions that he has made. To summarise, the country has done well in this three year period and States have shared this prosperity. I congratulate the Chief Ministers for the leadership they have provided without which their States could not have done well. As I said earlier in the day, there are many areas where we need to do much more and we can do so. I look forward to working with you in the remaining years of the Eleventh Five Year Plan to correct the weaknesses we have identified. Friends, India is the world's most successfully functioning multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, multi-lingual and multi-religious functioning democracy. India's future is in our collective hands. I am certain that our political leadership is capable of shaping destiny of this great country in the direction of removing poverty, ignorance and disease and ensuring a prosperous and equitable growth. I appeal to all of you to make this happen. With these words, I once again thank you all for your active participation, cooperation and for giving your suggestions and with these words I call the 55th meeting of the National Development Council to a close.
