"I was shocked to hear about the tragic loss of lives and extensive damage to property caused by the sudden cloudburst on the night of August 5-6, 2010. My heart goes out to all those who have lost their loved ones. I pray to God to give them strength in their hour of bereavement. I also wish the injured persons speedy recovery. I wanted to come earlier. But, I felt that my visit earlier could have hampered the rescue and relief executions. My Cabinet colleagues Dr. Abdullah, Shri G. N. Azad and Prithviraj Chavan, have already visited Leh, supervised the rescue operations and briefed me. I gather that 179 persons including 6 foreign nationals have lost their lives and approximately 400 persons have been injured. Reports indicate that a number of people including foreign nationals are also missing. There has also been extensive damage to the civil hospital, airport, telecom, drinking water supply works, National Highways connecting Leh-Manali, Leh-Kargil and also to private properties. I congratulate the brave personnel of the Army, the Air Force, BRO, ITBP and the NDRF on their courage, tireless efforts and deep concern for their fellow citizens in distress. The State and the Central Government worked hand in hand and ensured that emergency supplies like tents, blankets, turpentine, food and water urgently dispatched and distributed. The doctors and nurses have also done a very good job. I must congratulate the Leh Council, the Deputy Commissioner and his team and the senior officers of the State Government, for their prompt response. All together, it has been a fine example of prompt and coordinated action in the face of nature's fury. The focus should now shift to restoration of public services and rehabilitation. I would like to assure you that no efforts would be spared by the Central Government in this regard. I urge the Chief Minister to quickly send the memorandum to the Ministry of Home Affairs so that a Central team is sent at the earliest. I had already announced ex-gratia assistance of Rs 1,00,000/- each to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000/- per head for seriously injured persons. I have made a public appeal requesting people to donate generously to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund to help those affected in Leh. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy Sources is sending 1000 number of solar lanterns for the affected houses in Leh. These lanterns will provide light in the night and can be charged during the day with solar energy. We will fund a special package amounting to a sum of around Rs 125 crore for the Ladkah region from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF). This will cover the restoration of drinking water supply, renovation of the power supply system including DG sets, repairs to the SNM Hospital and replacement of the C.T. Scan machine, in Leh. It will also cover the restoration of the water supply system and the supply of DG set(s) of appropriate capacity to Kargil. In addition, untied grant of Rs 5 crore each will be provided to the Leh & Kargil Autonomous Hill Development Councils under the Special PMNRF package, to meet emergent requirements. Keeping the special locational disadvantages of the Ladakh area, enhanced assistance will also provided for housing. The State Government will set up a Project Monitoring and Implementation Unit under the Chief Secretary to ensure time bound implementation of the relief and rehabilitation projects. My office will render all possible assistance. Additional financial assistance for the restoration of infrastructure and other items, will be provided on the basis of the memorandum of the State Government and the recommendations of the Central team."
