"I am delighted to release this labour of love of my friend Ranjit Barthakur and his associate Bittu Sahgal. I compliment them for publishing this wonderful tribute to the Kaziranga National Park to mark the park's centenary. Kaziranga is much more than merely a well-known wildlife park, as a habitat for an enormous variety of species of flora and fauna, it is a precious and rare eco-system that we are obliged to preserve and protect as custodian of the future. Kaziranga has been acclaimed as a World Heritage Site because of its remarkable contribution to the protection of a wide range of endangered species, specially the well-known Rhinoceros. The efforts of the Park authorities and of the wider community of people integral to the eco-system, in conserving forest resources has set an example of what environment protection is about. Kaziranga is a global treasure. Its captivating landscape and its picturesque greenery and surrounding have attracted visitors from all parts of India and the world. This has further encourage the efforts to protect wild life and environment. Kaziranga has a special meaning for me, for it occupies a special place in the hearts of the people of the North-eastern region, especially Assam. This jewel of Mother India has adopted me with utmost generosity and love. I have the privilege of representing the people of Assam for more than fourteen years. What is dear to the people of Assam and the region is therefore naturally dear to me. My association with Assam, as a member of the Rajya Sabha, has given me the opportunity to get to know many fine men and women from the region, like Ranjit Barthakur, who have contributed greatly to our country. I am happy, therefore, to say that their friendship has also enriched my life. I admire their love for the North-East and their commitment to development and progress in harmony with nature in the region. Forests are our shared inheritance. Man does not have the right to denude them of the many million species for whom they are an equally important habitat. I am deeply concerned about what is happening in our forests. Reports of the decline in the Tiger population have once again alerted us to this grim reality. I had sought a CBI enquiry into this and our Government will take all the required steps to protect the Tiger and other endangered species. Man and animal have equal rights in living in harmony with nature. Since humans have for centuries come to live in forests we must also ensure that their needs for survival are also addressed. Our Government has, therefore, decided to pursue policies that give a stake to tribal communities in the preservation of the eco-system of forests and ensure sustainable development. Unless those who live in forests acquire a stake in the protection of the eco-system and of all species, we cannot save them from the depredations of poachers and other intruders. Our land has been blessed by a varied and rich natural habitat. We have allowed this inheritance to be destroyed for many many years. I do sincerely hope that efforts to reverse this destruction and to preserve and protect all that is valuable in our inheritance will secure widest possible public support. Every passing generation is but a mere trustee of this grand inheritance of nature. As trustees we are duty-bound to pass this inheritance on to future generations. Preserving the memory of what we have received is an important way in which we can ensure that it survives the ravages of time. Books like these play an important role in this process. Shri Barthakur and Shri Sahgal's book is no ordinary coffee-table book. It is of course a treat for the eye, like most coffee-table books. But it is also a treat for the mind. The well-written, thoughtful and informative essays on the varied flora and fauna in the Park, on the science of conservation, on the people in the park, and the history of the park will be read with great interest by students and visitors all over the world. I compliment Shri Bittu Sehgal and Shri Ranjit Barthakur for portraying the beauty of Kaziranga in this lavishly illustrated volume. I wish them all success in their noble endeavours."
