I wish to begin by thanking Prime Minister Kan and the Government and people of Japan for the warm welcome extended to me and members of my delegation. It is always a pleasure to be back in this beautiful city.Prime Minister Kan and I have just concluded very productive and fruitful discussions.The tradition of regular high level dialogue is the hallmark of the India-Japan Strategic and Global Partnership. Our annual Summits have set the pace and direction of this partnership, which rests on the firm foundation of shared values of democracy, rule of law and respect for fundamental human freedoms. Our two Governments have concluded negotiations on a Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. This is a historic achievement that signals the economic alignment of two of the largest economies in Asia. It will open up new business opportunities and lead to a quantum increase in trade and investment flows between our two countries. I suggested to Prime Minister Kan that we redouble our efforts in progressing major infrastructure projects in India such as the Dedicated Freight Corridor project and the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor project. Both these are proceeding on schedule and will have a transformational impact on our two economies. I conveyed to the Prime Minister our gratitude to the Government and people of Japan for the Official Development Assistance to India. We discussed ways to expand High Technology Trade between India and Japan. I hope that Japan will make its export control regulations for such trade easier and predictable. We appreciate the Japanese government's decision to cooperate with India on civil nuclear energy. I also conveyed our satisfaction with the High-Level Energy Dialogue between our countries through which we are partnering in the development and utilization of new and renewable energy sources.We reviewed the implementation of the Action Plan on Security Cooperation signed last December. Our Defence Ministers have agreed to meet annually. Prime Minister Kan and I discussed the possibility of further deepening our strategic partnership. The year 2012 will mark the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Japan. We discussed ways to celebrate the occasion in a befitting manner including through expanded people-to-people exchanges, especially amongst our youth. We have agreed to enhance our cooperation, both bilaterally and within the G-4, in the reform of the United Nations, and especially of the Security Council. We will continue to work together on global issues such as climate change, the Doha round of trade negotiations and the G-20. We will continue to work closely within the framework of the East Asia Summit and the region as a whole. I have invited Prime Minister Kan to visit India next year for our Annual Summit. I look forward to welcoming him in Delhi.Thank you.
