This is my first bilateral visit to Malaysia and I am delighted to be in this beautiful country. I wish to convey my sincere appreciation to Prime Minister Dato' Sri Najib and the people of Malaysia for the very warm welcome given to me and for the excellent arrangements that have been made for our stay. When Prime Minister Najib visited India in January this year, he had spoken of his wish to see a qualitatively new relationship between our two countries. My visit to Malaysia reflects the commitment of our Government to advance our relations to new heights. India and Malaysia are two major countries of Asia. Malaysia is an influential member of the world community whose voice is heard with great respect in global institutions.Our discussions today have laid the basis for a multi-faceted partnership between India and Malaysia. This will contribute to the peace, prosperity and development of Asia. Prime Minister Dato' Sri Najib and I have agreed today on the framework for a strategic partnership. The Joint Statement outlines a road map for enhanced contacts between our countries at the political, business and people-to-people levels, based on our shared values of democracy and multiculturalism. We have agreed to work closely with each other on regional and international matters of common interest, including on combating the scourge of terrorism. It is a matter of deep satisfaction that we have successfully concluded negotiations for a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement. We have agreed that the two sides will work to complete the formalities by 31 January 2011 so that CECA can come into force by the agreed date of 1 July 2011. I am confident that this Agreement will transform our economic engagement in a substantive way. Today we will also formally launch the India-Malaysia CEOs Forum. This will encourage direct interaction between business and industry in each other's countries as well in third countries. I conveyed to the Prime Minister that India welcomes greater Malaysian investment in our infrastructure and manufacturing sectors, and our companies similarly look forward to doing greater business in Malaysia and the ASEAN region. We have agreed to further enhance exchanges in the fields of tourism, civil aviation, culture, higher education and labour. We discussed regional and international issues of common interest. We agreed on the need to reform the United Nations, including its Security Council, and international financial institutions. Both of us share the view that the regional architecture for cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region should be open, inclusive and transparent. I thanked the Prime Minister for Malaysia's constructive role, as ASEAN Coordinator, in helping to work towards a early conclusion of the India-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement in Services and Investment. The year 2010 is a turning point in the history of India-Malaysian relations. The understandings and agreements that we reached today have established a solid foundation for the building of a Strategic Partnership, and bringing our two peoples together for a better future. Thank you.
