Officers and men from the SPG family,Ladies and Gentlemen:I am delighted to be amongst you as you celebrate the 20th Raising Day of the elite organization that is the Special Protection Group. I congratulate you on reaching this professional milestone. I also extend my felicitations to all Officers and personnel who have been decorated with medals and trophies for their excellence in different professional fields.Twenty years ago, our nation was recovering from the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhiji in truly tragic circumstances. For many of us at that time, there was anxiety and concern over the security of our leadership in future. The establishment of the SPG at that hour of crisis was an effective response to the sense of shock that all our people felt at that time. The raising of this force was a significant decision, as it put in place a committed and disciplined organization, with the exclusive responsibility of providing discreet and effective security to our political leadership.  With the benefit of hindsight, I can confidently say that the establishment of the SPG has been a decision that has served our nation and our people well. Over the past twenty years, the SPG has evolved into a formidable unit, displaying a high degree of professionalism, exemplary dedication and outstanding commitment to its heavy responsibilities. The demonstration on VIP security which we have just witnessed was impressive. But more importantly, it clearly demonstrated your excellent training and thorough preparedness. The skills that the SPG has acquired are impressive, and the quality of training shows that the force has the ability to face any challenge. By any reckoning, this splendid record of service is a matter of legitimate pride for the force and for the entire nation. I congratulate the Director and all ranks for attaining and maintaining such a high level of competence. Ladies and gentlemen,	A close and personal association with the SPG is an inevitable part of my present position. As you know, protectees rarely relish being protected, but in all honesty, I have come to value our association greatly. I do realize that the SPG not only ensures the security of my person and the safety of my family, it also goes to great lengths in ensuring my comfort and convenience, wherever I am. Such efforts are undertaken by the men and women of SPG with complete disregard for their own comfort and convenience. I have noticed this at home and abroad, and I am deeply touched by this dedication, devotion and selfless service. I also realize that you are often required to be an interface between the people and myself, which you undertake while watching for my safety. This is a task that requires considerable tact. It cannot be easy for you, and I appreciate this. However, just as it is essential for you to secure your protectees, it is also essential for you to facilitate ease of access to your protectees.  Public handling skills must continue to evolve, along with your professional skills. It cannot be doubted that handling the public and other VIPs while ensuring their security is a delicate balancing act. I do know that you sometimes face criticism on this account. For accepting this as part of the job, and for all your concern for my family and me, I thank you from the core of my heart. 	On my part, I am ready and willing to look into your legitimate concerns. I have listened to what the Director has just said regarding the proposals pertaining to your allowances, which are pending financial sanction. I can assure you that I will look into these matters sympathetically. Our Government will be responsive in ensuring that the SPG does not lack either the equipment or facilities for its professional efficacy or for the well-being of its men.  I recognize that a motivated force is half the battle. My office and our Government recognize this, and will do what is necessary to ensure that the force remains motivated. Ladies and gentlemen,  I do not wish to take more time on this happy occasion. However, I would like to reiterate my good wishes to all members of the SPG family on this twentieth raising day. I wish you every success in your profession. May your path be blessed.  Thank you and Jai Hind.
