I am delighted to be here today on the occasion of the Closing Ceremony of the Festival of China in India and the festivities associated with the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations between India and China.The Festivals of China in India and of India in China have played a crucial role in increasing awareness and consciousness about each other's countries and cultures.We have been touched by the response of the people of China to the Festival of India in China. The people of India have on their part watched with admiration the Shanghai Expo and the spectacular conduct of the Asian Games in China. Through this Festival, the people of India have had a glimpse of the richness of China's culture and pageantry.India and China are two great ancient civilizations that have flourished for thousands of years. The constant exchange of ideas, scholars, goods and scriptures has enriched our relationship through the ages, and finds a strong resonance in modern times.Contemporary India-China relations are a product of this long evolutionary process of historical contacts, and the underlying emphasis of both civilizations on traditions and values; the arts and culture; dialogue; the spirit of adventure and the unyielding quest for progress and development.Six decades ago, as young nations, India and China rediscovered each other and understood each other's aspirations. The development of sound elations with China has since then been a constant feature of India's foreign policy.As the economic weight of the world shifts towards Asia, the steady development of India and China have opened new opportunities for the global economy. Our shared interest in creating a more equitable world order has transformed our relations beyond its bilateral dimension to a strategic and global partnership. There is enough space in the world for both India and China to grow and fulfil the development aspirations of their respective peoples.As we draw the curtain on the celebrations of the 60th anniversary, we also open our hearts and minds to usher in the next decades of India-China friendship and cooperation. China is India's largest neighbour. We must significantly enhance our understanding of each other through greater exchanges in all fields, whether cultural, tourism, sports, students or scholars. We must close the information gap between us and learn about each other's achievements directly rather than through third sources.India-China cooperation will be the keystone of the Asian century that is unfolding before us. On this occasion I take this opportunity to applaud the personal role played by Premier Wen Jiabao in the advancement of our Strategic and Cooperative Partnership. This has laid the ground for the future growth of India-China relations.
