"It gives me immense pleasure to be here amongst the young and enthusiastic cadets of the National Cadet Corps. I commend the National Cadet Corps for their praiseworthy role in grooming our country's young men and women. The NCC is a proud symbol of national integration and of the values of discipline, patriotic service and team work. You, the young cadets of the NCC, come from every corner and community of our country. You speak different languages and profess different faiths. The work of the NCC shows that diversity in our society does not cause differences but rather is a source of strength and vitality. The multitude of talent, experience and learning in the NCC are a great resource for the country. Every year Swami Vivekananda's birthday, 12th January, is celebrated as National Youth Day. This year the Government of India has launched a four year celebration of the great thinker's 150th birth anniversary. Swami Vivekananda was an eloquent and passionate proponent of the power of our youth. He believed that the young people were the most potent agents of change in the country. He once wrote: "Have you the courage to face any hurdles, however formidable? Have you the determination to pursue your goal, even if those near and dear to you oppose you? You can be free men only if you have confidence in yourselves. You should develop a strong physique. You should shape your mind through study and meditation. Only then will victory be yours." I urge dear cadets each one of you to imbibe those inspiring words of wisdom and try to achieve excellence in whatever you choose to do in life. This is a time in your life when you should test your physical endurance and expand your mental horizons. I am very happy that NCC cadets have excelled in mountaineering, trekking and sailing and won laurels in various shooting competitions at the national and international levels. I have travelled to many countries but rarely have I come across young men and women who are brighter, better informed and more infused with hope, passion and values, than in India. Individual excellence is a matter of great pride and it should be recognized and rewarded. But no society or organization can flourish and grow on the strength of individual acts. Each member of the team must play a part and be appreciated for doing so. Our challenge and in fact the very test of true leadership is to motivate not just those who can excel but also those who constitute the smallest or weakest link in the chain. We should inculcate values in our children that foster team work and a sense of service to the society we live in. I believe that value education is a vitally important part of our upbringing and organizations such as the NCC should show the way forward. NCC cadets should set an example of working with local communities. I am very happy to inform you that in recognition of the good work done by the National Cadet Corps, the Government has sanctioned an enhancement in its authorized cadet strength from 13 lakh to 15 lakh. Before I conclude, I convey my very best wishes to the young ambassadors from friendly countries who have joined in this Republic Day Camp as part of the Youth Exchange Programme. I sincerely hope that they have a pleasant stay in our country and will carry something of India when they go home. With these words I congratulate all of you on your excellent performance and I wish you the very best in your future endeavours."
