"I am very happy to lay the foundation stone for the National Institute of Design at Jorhat. This will be the second Institute of its type in India after the first National Institute of Design was set up in Ahmedabad fifty years ago.
	 
	The need for design intervention for Indian products and services was first visualized by the then Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. He actively encouraged the setting up of the National Institute of Design at Ahmedabad. Starting from a small campus in 1961, the institute today is a multiple campus organisation with a strong national and international profile. It conducts graduate level diploma programs in eight design disciplines and sixteen sector specific post graduate programs in diverse domains . It has also set up state of the art infrastructural facilities like the Knowledge Management Centre, Information Technology Center, and Design Vision Center. The National Institute of Design has evolved as the touchstone of good design education in India while continuing its efforts for spreading knowledge of traditional Indian design across the world. But one institute cannot serve the growing and variegated needs of our nation. Therefore, this new institute at Jorhat is a timely and welcome initiative.
	 
	I am especially happy that the new institute is being set up in Assam with which I have a special bond. I represent Assam in Parliament and to me coming here is like coming home. Our government has always been alive to the special needs of Assam and the North East. We have initiated a number of projects for rapid development of Assam. I am happy to note that the comprehensive project for protecting the Rohmoria area and Majuli Island from erosion is at an advanced state of completion. The Bongaigaon Thermal Power project is likely to be commissioned shortly. The Assam Gas Cracker project is another significant project that has been taken up for implementation by the UPA Government. We have also initiated several projects for improving connectivity. These include the gauge conversion of Lumding-Silchar-Jiribam railway line, Bogibeel rail-cum-road project, construction of the Dhola Sadiya and Numali-Gohpur bridges, 4-laning of NH-37 on the Nagaon-Jorhat-Dibrugarh stretch, and upgradation of several National Highways. I am happy that the Ledo Opencast mining project has been commissioned. A project for the preservation of cultural heritage of Majuli Natun Kamalabari Satra has also been taken up. A 250 crore additional package for the Bodoland Territorial Council area is currently under implementation. Some important projects in Kokrajhar, Bongaigaon, Karbi Anglong and NC Hills districts are also being taken up under the Social & Infrastructure Development Fund announced in the Union Finance Minister's Budget Speech of 2008-09. I am sure all these steps will be able to address the development deficit of Assam to some extent.
	 
	It is design that converts creative ideas into tangible products and services for society at large. It can play an important role in economic, societal and industrial development. Its importance in creating opportunity for economic development and providing jobs is to be emphasized. The aim of good design should be improvement in the quality of life, through products and services which can be accessed by people in general. In the Indian context design should also be a tool for inclusive development. Value addition through innovation in design can play a pivotal role in enhancing the competitiveness of both manufacturing and service industries. Specific to the North East, better industrial product design can contribute to the development of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises by enhancing product utility and by helping in translating new ideas into new products.
	 
	In India, design has been a traditional skill. It gives a unique Indian aesthetic value to our arts and crafts as well as our festivals and historical monuments. However, in the process of rapid industrialization, some of our traditional skills have been lost. But, with the opening up of our country to global competition, the traditional design skills are once again finding a central role in differentiating our products. Indeed this could provide a competitive advantage to our producers. Therefore, our design initiatives should sustain and strengthen our traditional knowledge, skills and capabilities while also being sensitive to global demands and requirements.
	 
	Our government has taken significant initiatives to enhance the design innovation and application framework cutting across all sectors and disciplines. These include revamping the Designs Act and setting up Design Business Incubators. It is our hope that these steps would ensure that the rights of creative people are protected and talented people are trained in innovative processes, leading to creation of intellectual wealth. Stakeholders cutting across all industrial sectors in India have participated in Design Summits held over the years to evolve an approach for "Designed in India and Made for the World" campaign.
	 
	The development of assam and the North-east has always been one of the priorities of our government under the guidance of UPA Chairperson Smt Sonia Gandhi. This unique conglomeration of peoples, races, cultures, languages and religions also has unique needs of design development. The National Institute of Design at Jorhat should leverage on the traditional craftsmanship of the region and help in giving a new life to the traditional arts and crafts in this area. At the same time the institute should come out with eco-friendly design for adoption by the people of North East for modern industrial goods so that the modernisation and preservation of the ecosystem can go hand in hand. The promotion of the textile sector in the region as well as the initiatives under the National Bamboo Mission should also get support from this institute.
	 
	Let me end by wishing this new National Institute of Design all the best for the future. It is my hope that it will be of great benefit to this region and our country."
	 
