"I am delighted to be amongst you to participate in the 26th Raising Day celebrations of the Special Protection Group. Let me begin by congratulating the SPG and its members for being a thoroughly competent and committed organisation. I also extend my greetings to all officers and personnel who have won medals and trophies in recognition of their meritorious service and excellence in their profession. It was under tragic circumstances that the Government recognised the necessity of setting up a dedicated and specialised VIP Protection Unit. The shocking assassination of Smt. Indira Gandhiji made us realize sharply the need for a committed, disciplined and highly trained security outfit for providing discreet but nonetheless effective security to the highest political leadership of the country. Today, after 26 years, it is a matter of happiness and pride for all of us that the SPG has evolved and developed into a formidable Force displaying a very high level of professionalism and an outstanding level of commitment to duty. Today, the threat of terrorism has acquired new dimensions. Today's terrorism recognises no borders and transcends geographical limits and constraints. The new generation of terrorists possesses far greater capability to create networks for sharing knowledge, skills and resources. They have acquired State-like military capabilities in many of their fighting strategies and tactics. The number of important dignitaries at risk from terrorists has also been rising and this is a cause for major concern for Governments across the globe. India is no exception particularly since we have been fighting cross border terrorism for almost three decades. The role of our internal security agencies in ensuring peace and stability is better appreciated today than ever before. There is, however, no doubt that the police and security authorities can be much more effective in this work if they further improve their professional standards, and build more appropriate and better infrastructure. I am happy to know that the SPG is one organisation that has been thinking ahead and making constant efforts to improve its tactical response to meet the ever changing threats. Following the sanction of the Special Intervention Unit, I am sure the SPG will go all out in its efforts to operationalise and put in place its new counter -terrorist arm at the very earliest. On a personal note, I have over the last seven years observed the SPG from very close quarters. Over these years, my appreciation of the very difficult task that you perform has only grown. I thank you not only for taking care of my and my family's security and safety but for also ensuring our comfort and convenience. I have no doubt in my mind that other SPG Protectees present here have similar sentiments in respect of your organisation. In a democratic polity like ours it is essential that the top political leadership should be visible and easily accessible. At the same time, the concerns of security also need to be taken care of. It is this contradiction that SPG needs to manage. While I am aware of the considerable efforts that the SPG makes in this direction, I would urge the force to do more to minimise the levels of inconvenience faced by the ordinary citizens. Having completed a quarter century since its inception in 1985, I have no doubt that the SPG will work with renewed vigour to prove its ability even further in the coming years. Let me end by once again expressing my deep gratitude and appreciation of the excellent services being rendered by the SPG. I would also like to reaffirm our Government's commitment to ensuring that the SPG gets all that it requires to upgrade its infrastructure and the skills of its personnel."
