"It is a great privilege for me to meet the members of the Indian community in Ethiopia. Indian merchants and artisans came to this country as far back as the 19th century. They made a home here and with painstaking effort built for themselves a respected place in Ethiopian society. I was very proud to hear that many Ethiopians have high regard for the Indian teachers who taught them. I am told that even today Ethiopian universities are keen to recruit Indian professors. I see this spirit of selfless and dedicated service among all Indian communities I meet during my visits abroad. While retaining and carrying forward the high values, strong family traditions and work ethic of their motherland, they adapt very well in their adopted homes. They are pillars of their communities and a source of pride and achievement for Indians everywhere. I have been in Addis Ababa for the last three days. My visit to Ethiopia has been a most rewarding experience. I have been struck by the extraordinary goodwill, love and affection for India in this country. We are indeed fortunate to have friends like the people of Ethiopia. I have come to Africa with a message of friendship and solidarity from India. I conveyed to the African leaders how much importance the people and government of India attach to reviving our historic relations with this great continent. We concluded the second Africa India Forum Summit yesterday. Together with leaders from across the continent of Africa, we set out an ambitious road map to comprehensively expand the India-Africa partnership. Indian communities in Africa have an important role to play in renewing and strengthening relations between India and Africa. The rise of India and Africa is opening new opportunities for collaboration. There is much that we can do together to increase each others' welfare and prosperity. I have held detailed discussions on our bilateral relations with the Prime Minister of Ethiopia His Excellency Mr. Meles Zenawi. We agreed that there is vast untapped potential in developing our bilateral relations. Prime Minister Zenawi is a strong advocate of a robust and diversified relationship between India and Ethiopia. Today India is on a path of high economic growth. There is confidence and hope among our youth and a desire for change. A new India is rising fast as a fast growing, democratic and pluralistic society. These are features we share with Ethiopia. In recent years, Ethiopia's economic performance, political stability and democratic polity have attracted the attention of the international community. Ethiopia's voice is heard with increasing respect because of these achievements. I am confident that my visit will open a new chapter of multi-faceted cooperation between the two countries. In recent times, the flow of Indian investments in Ethiopia has grown. I am told that over 450 Indian companies have invested in Ethiopia with total committed investment of more than 4 billion US dollars. I would urge the Indian business community to set high standards of professional conduct in this country. Businesses that seek a long term presence here should work hard to earn the support and goodwill of local communities. They should aim to be model corporate citizens. Your contribution to the economic development of Ethiopia is highly appreciated. I would like you to know that your motherland recognises the value of this contribution and your hard work. The welfare, safety and well-being of Indian citizens will always receive our close attention. The Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs has been working hard to strengthen links of our overseas communities with India and to harness their knowledge, skills and resources. I am happy to announce that we will shortly set an Indian Community Welfare Fund for Indian citizens in distress in Ethiopia. I thank you all for coming here today. I wish you and your families the best of health and happiness."
