"Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your kind words and for your gracious hospitality. I am truly delighted to be here in Dar es Salaam, the abode of peace. I have visited Tanzania earlier in other capacities, but this is my first visit as Prime Minister. I have come to expand the horizons of our traditional friendship with Tanzania. President Kikwete and I have had very fruitful discussions. I am extremely happy with the steady growth in our bilateral relationship, especially since President Kikwete's visit to India in 2008. There is complete unanimity between us that a strong and all encompassing partnership between India and Tanzania is in the core national interest of both countries. Looked at from any point of view - whether geographical proximity, cultural influences or the stages of our development, it is essential for India and Tanzania to have the closest possible relations. We have agreed to accelerate our efforts to this end. Sustainable development is a top priority for both of us. Tanzania has given extraordinary political and intellectual support to the South, to the G-77 and to the Nonaligned Movement. In the light of the present global economic and financial uncertainties, we should revitalize this cooperation and make our voice heard in the affairs of the world. I conveyed to President Kikwete that India, on its part, is ready to partner Tanzania in its nation building efforts. We will focus on areas such as agriculture, small and medium industries, healthcare and human resource development. We support the President's national agriculture initiative. We will provide a new line of credit of 180 million US dollars for water supply projects in Dar es Salaam. Tanzania has been an active participant in India's capacity building schemes and policies, particularly the Centre of Excellence in ICT and the tele-education component of the Pan-African E-network project. We will provide a fresh grant of 10 million US dollars for capacity building projects in the social and educational sectors. Tanzania is an important trading partner for India in this region. India is a major buyer of Tanzanian agricultural products. Many Indian companies are operating here and are keen to diversify and increase their investments. President Kikwete and I have agreed to facilitate this process. Indian investment and technology can help Tanzania to become the industrial and technological hub of East Africa and its engine of growth. We have very similar concerns in the area of peace and security. Terrorism and piracy are two major problems we both face. We have decided to intensify consultations and coordination to combat such threats. India has contributed to several UN peace-keeping missions in Africa. We share a common vision of a democratic and equitable world order. We will strengthen our cooperation in the reform of the United Nations system, including of the UN Security Council. Our strong and multifaceted relationship with Tanzania is one of India's great success stories in Africa. Our people to people links have contributed significantly to this success. I briefed the President about the Second Africa-India Forum Summit in Addis Ababa and am very encouraged by his support to this process. I have invited His Excellency President Kikwete to visit India at his earliest convenience. His visit and other high level exchanges will contribute immensely to a close and substantive partnership between us. In conclusion, allow me to thank you, Mr. President, once again for the generous welcome given to me and the excellent arrangements made for my stay in Dar es Salaam. I thank you and the people of Tanzania for showing us this affection which the people of India heartily reciprocate."
