"I thank you most sincerely for the warm words of welcome. I also wish to thank you and Mrs. Kikwete for your very gracious hospitality. We are deeply touched by the warmth and friendship of the Tanzanian people. I am honoured to visit your great country. This is the land of mighty lakes, the majestic snow capped Kilimanjaro and wildlife reserves. Its people have lived in harmony for years and are renowned for their politeness and hard work. For me it is a pilgrimage to visit the land of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere. He was a towering personality not only of Tanzania but of the entire developing world. We remember him fondly and can never forget his contribution to the cause of the South. I was privileged to work with him in preparing the report of the South Commission. Excellency, I recall your highly successful visit to India in 2008 when I had the privilege of co-chairing the first India-Africa Forum Summit with you. Under your leadership Tanzania has made commendable progress. The recent general elections have again reaffirmed the trust the people of Tanzania have in your wisdom and vision. Tanzania has withstood the global economic crisis well and plays a most influential role in African and global affairs. We applaud your achievements in dealing with poverty and hunger and wish you greater success. Our two countries belong to different continents but for centuries we have been neighbours across the Indian Ocean. Maritime trade and people to people exchanges have drawn us closer. We have shared historical experiences. Today we seek to build a modern and dynamic partnership on the strength of these traditional bonds. We face the common challenges of accelerating economic development; of ensuring that its fruits reach the most disadvantaged sections; and of strengthening people's participation in processes of governance. As two leading democracies, we should aim to build a broad and ambitious relationship that can serve as a model of cooperation among developing countries. Our two countries should work together for international peace and stability. We should work to ensure that the fruits of globalization are shared equitably. We should make common cause to ensure that global governance is just and meets the aspirations of the developing world. Excellency, India and Africa are like brothers of an extended family. We have to rediscover and revive these fraternal ties of kinship. We are working hard to build a strong, mutually beneficial and diversified relationship with the people of Africa. We seek a partnership on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. The Second Africa India Forum Summit, which concluded two days ago in Addis Ababa, has taken forward the agenda of cooperation between India and Africa. The seeds for this were laid with your support in New Delhi in 2008, for which I am most grateful. I am confident that we are on our way to revive the golden era of Africa-India relations, when our leaders stood shoulder to shoulder in the struggle for freedom and as partners in peace. Excellency, India attaches great importance to its relations with the United Republic of Tanzania. Let us pledge to work together to realize the full potential of our partnership. Excellencies and Distinguished Guests may I now request you to join me in raising a toast to:- The good health of His Excellency President Jakaya Kikwete and Mrs. Kikwete, To the prosperity and well-being of the people of the United Republic of Tanzania; and To further strengthening of the bonds of cooperation and friendship between India and The United Republic of Tanzania."
