"I would like to begin by greeting the Zila Parishad Chairpersons and Mayors of urban corporations who have assembled here from all over the country to show their solidarity and commitment in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Let me also congratulate the Forum of Parliamentarians on HIV/AIDS for their continued leadership for this cause. I compliment my friend Oscar Fernandes for the leadership role that he has played in this regard.
	 
	This conference is taking place at a particularly opportune time. We are on the threshold of formulating the strategy for the next phase of the national response to HIV. Experience has shown that where Panchayati Raj Institutions are functioning well, social and development programmes have a markedly higher impact. We should therefore find effective ways and means of strengthening the participation of the Panchayati Raj institutions as well as the communities supported by them in the national HIV / AIDS programme. In recent years, there has been an increasingly concerted global effort to tackle what has become one of the biggest health challenges confronting humanity. I sincerely hope that the global commitment to fight against HIV/AIDS will not show signs of slackening in any manner.
	 
	In India, our AIDS control programme has been successful in being able to reduce new HIV/AIDS infections by 50% in the last ten years. Mortality rates amongst those infected with HIV have declined. We have managed to keep our prevalence low with only 0.31% adult prevalence and an epidemic concentrated largely among High Risk Groups. One of the key strategies of the national HIV programme has been to address these vulnerable groups.
	 
	The focus of the national response has been, on the one hand, to make prevention services available and accessible to those high risk and vulnerable population groups while improving provision of treatment for people living with HIV on the other. Going forward, the challenge will be to maintain a fine balance between prevention and treatment strategies. Some of the key priority areas will be preventing new infections in hitherto low prevalence states while consolidating efforts in the high prevalence states.
	 
	Targeted interventions among high risk groups have been scaled up significantly. Preventive campaigns involving information, education and communication have increased awareness about the nature of the epidemic. Testing and treatment facilities for HIV/AIDS have progressively increased their reach.
	 
	The prevention of transmission from infected pregnant women to the new born child is a priority area. One limiting factor has been low level of institutional deliveries in the past. There has fortunately been a phenomenal increase in institutional deliveries consequent to the Janani Suraksha Yojna. The convergence between the two programmes will lead, I believe to increased detection to prevent the transmission to the new born child.
	 
	Currently more than 4.2 lakh patients are receiving free treatment through around a thousand facilities across the country. With the introduction of anti-retro viral treatment, HIV has become a chronic but manageable health condition.
	 
	Another significant contribution of India to the global effort to combat HIV/AIDS is that a major portion of the global demand for Anti-Retroviral drugs that are used for the purpose of treatment for those infected with HIV is being met by the Indian pharmaceutical industry. Our drugs are both affordable and of high quality.
	 
	Our HIV/AIDs programme can justifiably claim a measure of success. But, there should be no room for complacency even though we have been able to show a reduction in new infections. Let us not forget that we have currently 24 lakh people estimated to be living in India with HIV/AIDS. Therefore there should be no let up in efforts to provide services to those HIV infected people and prevent others from getting the infection.
	 
	A number of challenges remain. We have a large population of young persons to whom we have to reach out with awareness and other prevention services. There are emerging vulnerabilities of migrants and mobile populations which are not yet fully addressed. HIV prevention services have to be scaled up for all those who are at risk.
	 
	We have to ensure that there is no stigma and discrimination towards HIV infected and affected persons. No child should be denied admission in schools and colleges because he or she is afflicted with HIV or because his or her parents are afflicted with this disease. We must ensure that no person loses his or her employment because of HIV. We must see that there is no social ostracization. We should ensure that women are not doubly stigmatized. We should work to assure for them a life of dignity and well being.
	 
	These are some of the major challenges which a sensitive and caring society must meet effectively. You, as the elected leaders have a major role to play in building up a healthy community response.
	 
	The response to HIV/AIDS requires a multi-sectoral approach and there should be greater integration of resources in dealing with this problem. The larger health system should also contribute to providing a wider platform for greater reach of the HIV/AIDS programme. All healthcare providers including ASHA workers should be involved in this gigantic task. Primary and Community health Centres should be made fully capable of providing treatment for opportunistic infections.
	 
	Other concerned Ministries should also have an "HIV sensitive" policy and programme so that the marginalized populations infected and affected by HIV/AIDS are not denied the benefits of these schemes. Linkages should be made between the HIV and AIDS programme and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme to facilitate employment of HIV positive persons. Nutritional needs of HIV positive people, specially women and children should be tackled by linking them with ICDS and other developmental schemes.
	 
	If health has to become a people's movement for the people's benefit, civil society involvement and the involvement of Panchayati Raj Institution guided programme delivery are absolutely essential. I have been informed that panchayat leaders have been sensitized under the HIV/AIDS programme but the engagement of local elected leaders, both from urban and rural areas, needs to be greatly intensified. We have shown that when everyone puts his or her shoulder to the wheel, the problem can be tackled. In this mammoth task, a multiple stake holder involvement is absolutely necessary. I therefore commend you to this noble task.
	 
	With these words, I wish the convention a great success."
	 
	 
	 
	 
