I am delighted and honoured to be in Dhaka. I am touched by the warmth and friendship of the people of Bangladesh and the extraordinary hospitality accorded to me and members of my delegation. Present here tonight are not only the leading dignitaries of Bangladesh, but also the Chief Ministers of all the States of our North-East bordering Bangladesh. This is a unique and special moment. It is a demonstration of our collective will to shape a better future for ourselves. There are few countries in the world whose destinies are so interlinked than ours. We are people of the same region. We share the same religious beliefs, language, customs and aspirations. We have a common ethos. I have come to Bangladesh to build upon your momentous visit to India last year. We deeply value your commitment to strengthening India-Bangladesh relations. You have served your nation with great distinction. Your personal sacrifices and belief in the values of pluralism, democracy and human dignity have earned you respect throughout the world. You have upheld the great legacy of your illustrious father, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Today, Bangladesh is in the midst of a major socio-economic transformation. Your economy has witnessed steady growth during the last several years. You have achieved commendable successes in eradicating poverty, hunger, illiteracy and disease. These are achievements Bangladesh can be justly proud of. Our talks today and the agreements that have been signed represent a qualitative leap forward in our relations. We have found solutions to seemingly difficult problems; problems which had defied solutions for years. We have done better. We have put in place a forward looking and comprehensive framework for cooperation in development. We have shown an openness of mind and heart to build bridges of collaboration across sectors. It is befitting that in this atmosphere of hope and confidence, we are jointly celebrating the 150th Birth Anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore. The establishment of a Tagore Chair at Dhaka University, an India-Bangladesh Parliamentary Friendship Group in the Indian Parliament and the Indira Gandhi Cultural Centre in Dhaka will add to the intensity of people to people interaction. Allow me to conclude by affirming India's complete commitment to the progress and prosperity of Bangladesh. We desire to see a stable, secure and self-reliant Bangladesh. India will remain at your disposal in every sphere of your nation building efforts. I once again thank you, the government and people of Bangladesh for the warm and gracious hospitality extended to us. May relations between India and Bangladesh continue to flourish. Thank you.
