	I am delighted to participate in this function to inaugurate the Ramanujan Centre for Higher Mathematics in the Alagappa University.
	 
	I am very grateful to my friend and colleague Shri. P. Chidambaram for having broached the subject of my coming to this part of our country and I am mighty pleased that I accepted his invitation. He and I have been colleagues in the nineties, when I was the Finance Minister, he was the Commerce Minister and we worked hand in hand. And since 2004 I have derived immense support from his enlightened leadership first as Finance Minister and more recently as the Home Minister. Whatever task is given to Shri. P.Chidambaram he performs it with superb aplomb.
	 
	Let me begin by paying tribute to the legendary mathematician after whom the Centre has been named. Srinivas Ramanujan was a great son of India and Tamil Nadu, and ranks among giants in the world of mathematics. His genius was such that it shone bright even in the face of economic difficulties and with little formal training in mathematics. This year we are celebrating the 125th birth anniversary of Ramanujan and therefore it is very appropriate that this Centre has been named after him. A few hours back I had participated in another event in his honour and there I had declared our government's decision to celebrate Ramanujan's birthday every year as the National Mathematics Day, and to celebrate the year 2012 as the National Mathematical Year.
	 
	I understand that the Alagappa University has just celebrated its Silver Jubilee. I congratulate the University for its many achievements in the 25 years of its existence. It is my understanding that most of the alumni of the University have done very well in their life and career, and many of its faculty members have received national and international awards for teaching and research. I am also told that the University has recently been awarded the prestigious ‘A’ grade in the re-accreditation by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. My best wishes are with the faculty, students and staff of Alagappa University and it is my hope that the University will do even better in the future.
	 
	The Alagappa University was founded by the distinguished philanthropist Dr. R. M. Alagappa Chettiar. In fact, the vision of Dr. Alagappa Chettiar was instrumental in the establishment of a number of educational institutions in this rural district of Sivaganga in Tamil Nadu. They include an Arts and Science College, an Engineering College and a Physical Education College. The institutions established by him have empowered people in this part of Tamil Nadu and have built the careers of thousands of young men and women. As long back as 1948, Dr. Alagappa Chettiar had dreamt of a Centre for Mathematics named after Ramanujan. I am very happy that his dream stands realized today and I join all of you in paying respects to Dr. Alagappa Chettiar on this occasion.
	 
	We need to emphasize more on mathematics education in our country. India has a glorious tradition in mathematics which we need to encourage and nurture. We need to carry forward the legacy of great mathematicians like Aryabhata, Brahmagupta and Ramanujan. This becomes especially important because mathematics is finding increasing use in the study of other disciplines. I had mentioned today morning that India is short of competent mathematicians and the mathematical community has a responsibility to encourage and facilitate the study of mathematics as an academic discipline in our country. I am sure that this Centre will be of great help in promoting mathematics education in this part of our country. I understand that Dr. K. Kasturi Rangan, Member, Planning Commission of India has contributed handsomely for the construction of the elegant building of this Centre. I compliment him for his generosity.
	 
	In the end I would like to once again wish the Alagappa University and the Ramanujan Centre for Higher Education all success in the future. May God bless your path.
