 The Prime Minister could not attend the function as he was indisposed, his speech was delivered by the Minister of Human Resource Development, Shri Arjun Singh. Following is the text of the Prime Minister's speech: "We are gathered here to pay tribute to the Late Shri Ram Nathji Goenka in the year of his birth centenary. The diversity of the gathering here is a reflection of his personality. A complex, mercurial, multi-faceted personality, Ram Nathji lived life to the full. Ram Nathji was one of the pillars of the freedom struggle and made his newspapers part of the armoury of the national struggle. Like so many of his generation he joined that struggle in response to Mahatma Gandhiji's call. Starting out as a publisher of a small newspaper, he saw his publication grow along with the growth of the sentiment for national Independence. He made The Indian Express a vehicle of patriotism and national fervour. He was among the first to close down his papers in 1942 at Gandhiji's call and threw himself into the Quit India movement in 1942, in support of legendary underground leaders. He secretly brought out "India Ravaged", a tract that indicted British rule that was immediately proscribed. Ram Nathji started out virtually penniless, 'with a lota and a pair of dhotis', as he would recall. But he lived to build a vast multi-lingual newspaper chain that for years claimed the largest combined circulation of any newspaper in English, Marathi and Telugu and the largest of any group in India. He was, I believe, the first to conceptualise an English language financial daily, as he recognized that if India was to prosper it must develop commerce and industry on a strong rural foundation. In this process of reaching out, he pioneered multiple editions and a vast distributive network with so-called "van editions" that would reach his papers to small town and mofussil readers. He did this not merely to gain circulation and overtake the older and better-established metropolitan papers and thereby win advertisements, but also to cater to the information needs of the small man. He was later one of the foremost builders of the Press Trust of India. For him, the media was a mission, not a business. A mission to fight the Raj and win Swaraj, to bind the nation in unity and purpose, to campaign against high-handedness and corruption, and ensure the rulers did not stray from their 'raj dharma'. He was quick to see a cause and, making it his own, would fight for it to the end, staking all. This complete commitment to causes that he held dear, characterized his entire life. Some times ends justified the means. Hence his incessant battles against authority and his involvement in all manner of litigation, which strangely invigorated him. My friend Shri Sharada Prasadji, who worked with Ram Nathji for a decade from 1945 to 1955, and later interacted with him as Media Advisor to Indiraji and Rajivji, says in a recent candidly essayed column paying tribute to Ram Nathji's qualities of head and heart, and I quote: 'He had proved that standing up for probity and fairness in politics brought its own reward - the power to change history. There would be some who might question the claim that Goenka invariably stuck to truth and fairness, but none will deny that he was a relentless, resourceful, ruthless and even reckless fighter. He took risks others would not have dared to. There is no doubt at all that he was the most feared as well as the most fascinating press baron our country has produced.' Of Marwari origin, brought up in Bihar and settled in Madras, but with property in every part of India, Ram Nathji was one of the country's youngest legislators. He was nominated by the British to the Madras Legislative Council when barely 24 and yet sat with the Opposition, championing the nationalist cause while the Government frowned. He was put in charge of the Dakshina Hindi Prachar Sabha, which he nurtured, and made the print media his mission, taking over the fledgling but struggling Indian Express in 1937. He committed his newspaper to the service of the nation and the Congress, of which he became a member. Later, he was one of the principal organizers of the Avadi Congress in 1955 that resolved in favour of a socialistic pattern of society, an ideology to which he did not really subscribe. He drifted away from the Congress after the Party split in 1969 but in his heart remained a Congressman till the end. Ram Nath Goenka was a member of the Constituent Assembly and later a Member of Parliament from 1971 to 1976, standing as an independent from Vidisha. But his main work was outside Parliament. He spurned office, preferring instead to maintain his watchdog role. He saw himself as something of a national whistleblower, sounding the trumpet whenever he felt anything had gone wrong. He was strongly drawn to Jayaprakash Narayan, fought the Emergency, supported the Janata Party and, subsequently, the National Front. But deep down, he never forgot old friendships and old loyalties. As we join here in celebrating the birth centenary of this national and newspaper stalwart, warts and all, I wonder what he would have thought of the media scene today? What would he say about the current standards and ethics of journalism? Would he have been pleased with the stories and pictures that fill large chunks of some of our leading papers and channels today? As India moves into the new millennium we see all around us signs of restlessness and ferment at the grassroots that heralds a new awakening in this vast, plural society of over a billion people. We also see many signs of remarkable achievement. At this time, we need to ask ourselves what kind of media does India need and deserve? I do believe in the market and in globalisation, but with strong safety nets and a clear understanding of our social responsibilities and national interests. Should the market define the media or the media define the larger market of ideas, values, goals and information needs both for the classes and the masses. But Gandhiji said that freedom would not be truly won till we are able to wipe the tear from every eye. We are yet to reach that goal. What then should be the role of the media in these new and increasingly challenging times? Speaking to the best and brightest of the media assembled here proprietors, publishers, editors, newspersons and television stars; I should like to know your answer to this important question. The media to a great extent defines the daily national agenda. What is your agenda for tomorrow? Indeed, what should our agenda be? Does the media have a role in defining it? In reflecting the many ideas that we necessarily have to grapple with? I often wonder whether those who are in media realize the power of information dissemination that is in their hand and see how much good they can do for society, if they only so wish. Modern technology has multiplied this power in time and space. Grappling with the advent of a new technology, the microphone, Mahatma Gandhiji is reported to have told a journalist 'The microphone is an instrument of power; I saw God's power in it'! Sitting where I now do in Government I must confess I do see the power of both God and Devil at work in the new technologies of the media! The challenge for a democracy like ours is to strike a balance between the possibilities of technology, the compulsions of the market, the passions of the audience and the interests of society and the Nation. I urge you to reflect on this. We must tap once again into the wellspring of nationalism and patriotism that shaped the formation of this nation. Every day when I open the newspapers or when I tune into a channel I am often disturbed the messages we are transmitting. Have we no larger mission at hand? Of nation building, of caring for the under-privileged, of seeking better governance, of making ours a more humane, prosperous, creative, free and liberal society? I urge the media to engage in the battle of ideas and values with the passion and fervour of a Ram Nath Goenka. The Indian Express Group that Ram Nathji led with such panache and passion has as its motto the phrase 'Journalism of Courage'. I salute the courage of journalists. That courage, however, must be combined with commitment and compassion. I would like you all to strive for a 'Journalism of Courage, Compassion and Commitment'. Courage in the struggle for truth and against wrongdoing; compassion for those whose voice often finds no expression; commitment to decency, morality and the well-being of our nation."
