	"My two days in Bangkok have been very useful and productive. We have had the first BIMSTEC Summit. I also met for bilateral talks the President of Sri Lanka and Prime Ministers of Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh, apart from my host, the Prime Minister of Thailand.
	Results of BIMSTEC Summit are very encouraging. The Joint Declaration issued after our meeting, sets out the vision for the future. Discussions were held in very cordial, friendly, informal and harmonious atmosphere. There was a meeting of minds. All leaders were agreed that collectively we could do more for the development and prosperity of our people by synergising our respective strengths and resources. In deciding projects and areas of cooperation, we agreed that focus should be on ways and means to improve the lives of ordinary people in the region, which is one of the poorest in the world. Focus has to be on quick, practical and deliverable programmes/results.
	You already have copy of my statement made at the BIMSTEC inaugural ceremony this morning. Later during the Retreat, I made a number of proposals that we would organize in India. These include:
	1. Hosting a BIMSTEC Ministerial meeting on Energy Cooperation in 2005.
	2. Hosting a round-table and Workshop of Tourism Ministers and Travel Trade & Industry representatives in 2005.
	3. Setting up a BIMSTEC Center on Weather and Climate Research and Information in New Delhi.
	4. Sharing Remote Sensing Data on Agriculture.
	5. Offered 150 ITEC scholarships for BIMSTEC countries next year in addition to the existing 150 scholarships.
	6. Offered 30 scholarships in traditional systems of medicine.
	There was detailed discussion on poverty alleviation programmes being conducted by different counties. There was complete understanding on need to benefit from each other’s experiences. I explained at some length the need for multifaceted approach on rapidly expand and increase the growth rate of our agricultural and rural economies, which should be labour intensive and environment friendly. Empowerment of people and economic liberalization programmes have to move hand-in-hand. Primary health and education are integral to poverty alleviation programmes. There is need for employment assurances to landless labourers. Needs of Small and marginal farmers are different. They are to be provided marketing support and credit facilities. With a view to work out specific poverty alleviation programmes for specific needs of each country, Bangladesh offered to host a Ministerial meeting on poverty alleviation and Women’s empowerment.
	There was also keen interest in alternative forms of medicine and traditional knowledge. Countries also recognized need for access to affordable drugs and appreciated India’s achievements in the field of manufacturing generic drugs. Thailand has agreed to host a meeting on this subject.
	Likewise, Sri Lanka will be hosting Meeting on Technology, Biotechnology and Intellectual Property Rights for traditional knowledge.
	Bhutan has agreed to host meeting on Cultural Cooperation.
	There was unanimity on joining hands in combating international terrorism. Countries pledged not to allow use of their territory by terrorist groups launching attacks on friendly governments. There was willingness to share information and capacity building by sharing training programmes in intelligence capacity building. The setting up of a BIMSTEC Joint Working Group on counter-terrorism is an important step. We agreed to hold the first meeting of this group in New Delhi later this year.
	At the request of all the participants, India also agreed to host the next BIMSTEC Summit in 2006.
	Between now and then, a lot of work is needed at senior officials and Ministerial levels.
	By our meeting today, we have shown that we have the necessary political will to give a dynamic push to regional cooperation around the Bay of Bengal. Incidentally, we have decided that BIMSTEC will no longer signify the first initials of the names of the earlier five member countries, but will stand for Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sector Technical and Economic Cooperation.
	I shall be happy to respond to your questions, if any".
