	Mr. Chairman Sir, I join you and all other colleagues in conveying our warmest regards and very best wishes to all the retiring members of this august House. As many of those who have spoken before me have mentioned, it is our sincere wish and hope that many of them will return to this House for another term. But even if there is some delay in that thing materializing, the experience that they have gained in this House will be of enormous help to them in their public life. After all, public life does not end with not being a Member of Parliament. There are enormous opportunities in our country today to serve our country in diverse capacities. And therefore I join all the Honourable Members who have spoken before me, in wishing best of luck to our retiring colleagues.
	Mr. Chairman Sir, I am a member of this august House for over 20 years. In this period of 20 years, I have come in contact with great personalities. Some of them are sitting in this House. I wouldn’t like to name anyone individually. But I have believed that membership of this august House is a great learning process. I have certainly found it as a great learning process. My contacts with people from different parties, different persuasions, different backgrounds, have given me an idea of the diversity and ‘unity in diversity’ that characterizes our great country. When we debate various issues, often there is a tension on the surface. But I am convinced that the underlying concern of all members of this House must be to maintain unity and integrity of our country. I recall, Dr. Mohammed Iqbal once said, looking at India’s civilization for 3000 years, what is it that keeps it going, and he said:
	Mit gaye Misra, Unaan aur Rome
	Lekin Kaayam hai ab tak naam-o-nishaan hamaara
	Kuch baat hai ki hasti mitati nahin hamaari
	Sadiyon raha hai dushman daur-e-zamaan hamaara.
	And it is this perspective, which comes out whenever there is a debate. There are tensions, but underlying that is a common concern that all of us are servants of the people of India. There is a great opportunity given to us to serve our country. And with these words, I once again join you and all other colleagues in conveying our very best wishes to all those members who will be retiring today.
	Thank you.
	 
