Mr. Speaker, Sir,It is once again with mixed feelings that we come to the end of yet another Session of this House. There is a sense of achievement, with respect to the enormous business that we have been able to transact. There is also a sense of loss, occasioned by the manner in which the proceedings of the House were disrupted and boycotted and, more worryingly, the manner in which aspersions have been cast on the high office of the Hon'ble Speaker.  At the end of the last session I had expressed my sadness at the manner in which the proceedings of the House could not take place. I deeply regret that once again, we have not had adequate occasion to undertake our work in the presence of the Opposition for a substantial part of this Session.  The people of India have reposed their faith and trust in us and have sent us here to project and protect their interests, to canvass and convey their concerns, to influence and shape Government policy. We are here, Mr. Speaker, Sir, to voice the views of the people, not to stay away from the House and give no expression to it.I must, however, compliment you, Mr Speaker Sir for your patience, your forbearance, your fair play and leadership in the conduct of the proceedings of the House. We are truly fortunate to have a leader of your eminence and wisdom chairing the proceedings of this august House. It is because of your abilities and your qualities of mind and heart that we have been able to transact so much useful business in this Session, in the face of the disruption of the proceedings of the House.As many as 26 Bills were introduced and 26 Bills, including the Finance Bill, were passed in this Session. My colleagues in the Union Council of Ministers and I had 11 occassions to make important statements on the floor of the House. On ten important issues of concern to our people the House discussed Calling Attention Motions. We discussed, under rule 193, such matters of national concern as the tsunami, electoral reforms, foreign policy demographic trends and developments in Nepal. Mr Speaker Sir, taken together the legislative business in this Session has taken the Nation forward in our march towards higher economic growth with social justice. The United Progressive Alliance was voted to office to provide the people of India with a Government that cares. A Government that is sensitive to the needs of the ordinary citizen, the aam admi, that strengthens the inclusive character of our Nationhood. We have succeeded in this one year in reversing the trend of the politics of exclusion, the politics of divisiveness, the politics of majoritarianism. In its place, the UPA has returned the Nation to even keel, to the course set by the leaders of our National Movement for freedom. The path of secularism and pluralism in which every citizen of this country, irrespective of caste or community, region or religion, language or lineage feels an equal and has an equal stake in our collective future.In my intervention yesterday, Mr Speaker Sir, I dwelt at length at our initiatives in foreign policy. I do not wish to repeat what I said except to draw the attention of this House once again to the fact that our Government has been able to create an international environment in which our developmental priorities can be better addressed.Mr Speaker Sir, in his Budget Speech, the Hon'ble Finance Minister has outlined our Government's priorities for this year. We are committed to building a more equitable and efficient economy. Our priority is to create new wealth and new employment, to attract new investment and generate new knowledge. To build a caring society and a competitive economy. That is our promise to our people. Mr Speaker, Sir. I truly wish we had more time to discuss these issues that are the real concern of our people. I can only express the hope that the next Session would be a normal session and a more productive session. I trust the Hon'ble Members of the Opposition will return to Parliament in the next Session, so that we can resume normal work, in accordance with the aspirations of the people we represent.  I look forward to participating in the next Session of Parliament, with the presence of all Members of this August House.  I greatly regret the absence of the Opposition from Parliament.  The Opposition has an honoured place in our system of Governance and their absence from the House detracts from the efficiency of our processes of Governance.  As I have said repeatedly, all issues which are of concern to any Member of this House can be discussed and debated on the floor of this House.  It will be a sad day if our people were to lose faith in important institutions such as our Parliament.  Therefore, both Government and Opposition are obliged to play their respective roles to ensure that the system of checks and balances envisioned by our founding fathers functions effectively and efficiently for the common benefit of our country.I would like to conclude by placing on record my sincere appreciation for your guidance and leadership, and also thank the Deputy Speaker, the Secretary-General and the staff of the Lok Sabha Secretariat for their commitment and hard work. Thank you,Sir.
