	“It gives me immense pleasure to be amongst the cadets of the National Cadet Corps on the occasion of the Annual Republic Day Camp. I was once again deeply impressed by the spectacular rally today as well as your performance at the Republic Day parade. I compliment the NCC for the splendid performance and team effort. Our nation is truly proud of you.
	Ever since its establishment, the NCC has made an immense contribution towards processes of nation-building and social harmony. It has transformed the lives of millions of youth by honing their leadership skills and inculcating in them the core values of patriotism, discipline and selfless service. It has thus fully lived up to the vision of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru who saw the NCC as a national organization for training and grooming the youth as responsible citizens and leaders of the future.
	India is a young nation. Our youth are our major strength. Today, more than ever before, there is greater awareness among the youth about their rights. Equally, there is a strong desire to contribute directly to the betterment of our society. I have no doubt that if we are able to channelize this immense energy of our youth in a positive direction, we can successfully address even the most complex challenges facing our country today.
	Our Government has taken several steps in this direction by working to provide access to quality education and creating more employment opportunities. We have enacted the law on “Right to Education” to provide educational opportunities to every child of our nation. We have also launched major programmes for skill development and vocational training so that our youth can be absorbed productively into a modern economy based on manufacturing and industrial development.
	We are also engaged in the quest for our youth to participate more actively in processes of social development. Here, I am happy to note the stellar role that the NCC has played in empowering the youth to take up the challenges of eliminating all forms of social discrimination and exploitation, and work towards national harmony. Your efforts in spreading awareness amongst our masses on important issues like the evils of female foeticide, AIDS & cancer control, energy conservation and environment protection are praiseworthy.
	It is also a matter of pride that the NCC has always come forward and discharged its duties effectively in the spheres of disaster relief, social service and community development. Our nation is grateful to you for your valiant efforts.
	I am happy to learn that the NCC has refined its training philosophy and made it more contemporary. The inclusion of Personality Development as a major subject, with special emphasis on soft and life skills, will help the cadets to become self-confident and develop their leadership skills.
	I am aware of the high standards achieved by cadets in the fields of training, sports and adventure activities. It is heartening to learn that NCC cadets have undertaken several successful mountaineering, trekking and sailing expeditions. The rich haul of medals by the NCC cadets and ex-cadets in various shooting competitions and equestrian events at the National level further strengthens my belief in this vital dynamic youth organization.
	I assure you, and through you, the youth of India that the best is yet to unfold. The future belongs to you. I urge you to exploit the opportunities with firm resolve and commitment, and contribute positively towards the growth of our nation. While doing so, please keep the motto of the NCC - “Unity and Discipline” - uppermost in your mind. A disciplined and united nation can meet any challenge.
	I also convey my greetings and very best wishes to the young cadets from our friendly countries who have joined this Republic Day Camp as part of the Youth Exchange Programme. I am sure that they will carry back fond memories of their stay in our country.
	With these words, dear cadets I once again compliment you for the spectacular rally today. I wish you all success in your future endeavours.
	Jai Hind.”
	 
