	“It gives me immense pleasure to extend a very warm welcome to Prime Minister Orban and his delegation on their visit to our country.
	Your Excellency, you happen to be in India during a season of festivals. Let me say that your presence amongst us in this festive season adds greatly to our joy. We wish you a very pleasant, productive and enjoyable stay in our country.
	Your Excellency, notwithstanding the difficulties that faced you when you took over the reins of your country, you have led with great skill and resolve in guiding Hungary out of its crisis and back on to a path of growth. In doing so, you have only exemplified the spirit for which your country is well-known.
	Through the last half century and more, the people of India have borne witness to the resolve of the Hungarian people. The most recent occasion was in the momentous years of 1988-89, when they succeeded in restoring democracy in Hungary and ending an era of division in Europe. We have seen with admiration and joy Hungary’s rapid transformation since then.
	In this, your first visit to India, and in your broader "Eastern Opening”, you have demonstrated that opportunities in our integrated world are determined not by size or distance, but by imagination and initiative.
	Your visit builds on the remarkable tradition of cultural ties and affinity between our people. Hungarian scholars of Indology have made invaluable contributions to Europe’s rich scholarship on Indian traditions, culture and heritage. Sanskrit was introduced in a Hungarian University in 1873. Gurudev RabindranathTagore, who invited many Hungarian scholars to Shanti Niketan, was himself enraptured by the beauty of the waters of Lake Balaton. And, this year, we are jointly celebrating the centenary of the noted painter Amrita Sher-Gil, who was a daughter of India and Hungary.
	These traditions of affection and goodwill between our people, together with our shared democratic values and the rich possibilities of our economic partnership, provide an enduring foundation for our partnership. Our relations have remained on a steady course through the tumult and change in Europe and the world. The growing presence of Indian companies in Hungary is indicative of the promise of our relationship. We also value the support we have received from Hungary in international forums. All this leads me to believe that Hungary and India can find great opportunities in each other and also be each other’s bridge to Europe and Asia.
	With these words, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, may I now request you to join me in raising a toast to:
	 • The good health and well being of His Excellency Prime Minister Orban;
	 • The progress and prosperity of the friendly people of Hungary; and
	 • The everlasting bonds of friendship between India and Hungary.”
	 
