	"I am delighted to welcome His Excellency General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong on his first State Visit to India.
	Both India and Vietnam belong to a region that holds enormous potential, but also many challenges. We have a strong convergence of interests in working together, and with others in the region, for a stable, peaceful and prosperous Asia. We have therefore sought to build a comprehensive relationship with a broad-based agenda of bilateral and regional cooperation. Vietnam’s emergence as one of the most vibrant economies in the Asia Pacific region is greatly welcomed by India, especially because we regard Vietnam as a trusted and privileged strategic partner and an important pillar of our Look East Policy.
	General Secretary Trong and I held very cordial and productive discussions today. We have agreed on a number of initiatives that will define the contours of our Strategic Partnership in the years ahead.
	We reaffirmed the importance of defence and security cooperation in our overall Strategic Partnership and agreed to strengthen it further. India will continue to assist Vietnam in modernization and training of its defence and security forces, including through a 100 million U.S. dollar line of credit for defence purchases. We will also help in setting up the Indira Gandhi High-tech Cyber Forensic Laboratory in Hanoi and a Vietnam-India English and IT Training Centre at the National Defence Academy of Vietnam.
	Our bilateral trade has grown steadily and we are on course to achieve the trade target of 7 billion US dollars by 2015. A new Joint Sub-Commission on Trade has been tasked to work towards realizing the enormous potential of our economic relations. Indian investments in Vietnam are growing and I requested General Secretary Trong to facilitate them further in Vietnam. I expressed appreciation for Vietnam’s decision to award Tata Power a 1.8 billion US dollar thermal power project in Vietnam and the offer of another offshore block to ONGC Videsh Limited for continued oil and gas exploration. We also look forward to boosting our bilateral economic ties through the India-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement and connectivity projects.
	The Air Services Agreement signed today advances our goal of strengthening connectivity between our countries.
	General Secretary Trong and I reviewed our development partnership and capacity-building efforts. The PARAM High Performance Computing Facility has just been inaugurated at the Hanoi University of Science and Technology, which is India’s first gift of a supercomputer to another country. Vietnam has been an important partner in the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation Programme, which we have agreed to continue. We have identified Education and Information Technology as important areas for further collaboration.
	We are satisfied with the progress in Science and Technology cooperation, especially in bio-technology and agriculture. India also appreciates Vietnam’s assistance in setting up its first overseas farm for catfish breeding, where Vietnam has proven expertise.
	I conveyed the Archeological Survey of India’s readiness to take up the project for conservation and restoration of the Cham Monuments, which are a symbol of our historical, civilizational and cultural contacts. We have also decided to open an Indian Culture Centre in Hanoi.
	We have agreed to further strengthen contacts at all levels - national and provincial - and between leaders in all walks of life. We also look forward to initiating a Distinguished Visitors Programme soon.
	We exchanged views on regional and international issues of common interest. We appreciate Vietnam’s steadfast support to India’s integration and engagement with the ASEAN and our aspiration for permanent membership of a reformed UN Security Council.
	I believe that this visit by General Secretary Trong has put our Strategic Partnership on a firm growth path."
