"It is a pleasure to thank you, not merely on behalf of my wife and myself, but on behalf of the people of India. The generosity of your hospitality is only exceeded by the generosity of your spirit. I have often heard of the warmth and affection of the American people, but when one feels it with such intensity, it is truly heartwarming. Bernard Shaw had once described America and England as two countries divided by one language. Perhaps this once held true for India and America as well. I believe our two countries must strive to arrive at a common lexicon and a shared framework of reference in looking at the rest of the world, for there is truly very much that we have in common. However, if, in the recent past, our communication has been better and clearer, a good deal of the credit must go to President Bush. Mr. President, we are indebted to you for your sustained support to the transformation of the India-US relationship. I have found my visit to your great country to be a highly rewarding experience. The Joint Statement we have issued today highlights some priority areas for expanded cooperation in future. We look forward to working with you to realise our common aspirations in the months and years ahead. Mr. President, India and America are great nations and great democracies. We cherish the openness of our societies and economies. We value our pluralism, our diversity and our freedoms. These shared values that bring us together must be more visible, not only in how we deal with each other, but also in our approach to the world. We must strengthen democratic capacities jointly. We must oppose the evil of terrorism together. To meet such vital challenges, we must be together on the same page. We must speak the same language and display the same resolve. Mr. President, I look forward to your visiting India, with Mrs. Bush and to the pleasure of extending our hospitality to you. Mark Twain had once said that "the only foreign land" he ever dreamt about or "deeply longed to see" was India. We have all grown up learning the story of the unfinished voyage of Christopher Columbus. Setting sail to reach India, he discovered America. I now invite the people of America to complete the voyage of that great explorer. I myself come to the United States with a firm belief that working together, India and the USA can make a significant contribution to global peace and prosperity. Indeed, the contribution that the two million-strong Indian-American community is making to every sphere of activity in this great country is one indicator of the vast untapped potential in our bilateral relationship. Mr. President, Madam First Lady, Ladies and Gentlemen, Today has been a day well spent and this is a meal well shared. We are happy to break bread with you in friendship. Ladies and Gentlemen, I now invite you to join me in a toast to: The health and happiness of President George Bush and the First Lady, Mrs. Laura Bush, the friendly people of the United States of America and to the success of all that we are endeavouring to do through this visit to open a new chapter in our relationship."
