I feel truly privileged to have this unique opportunity today to inaugurate the Habibia School together with His Excellency the President of Afghanistan. Since the establishment of this prestigious institution over a century ago, India has enjoyed a close and privileged association with this school. In fact, the first Principal of Habibia School, Prof. Abdul Ghani was from India.We have also been fortunate in having been able to send many Indian teachers to serve in this prestigious school.I am told this institution has always adhered to the highest standards of education. Its alumni have included political leaders, engineers, doctors, diplomats, writers and poets, who have done Afghanistan proud. Suffice to say that among today's leaders, both Baba-e-Millat H.M. Zahir Shah and President Hamid Karzai have passed through the portals of this school. I am confident that the school will continue its good work and produce many more respected leaders of the Afghanistan of tomorrow.During the more than 25 unfortunate years of conflict, Habibia School suffered major physical damage. We in India considered it a privilege to have been asked by the Government of Afghanistan to undertake the rebuilding of this prestigious School. This gave us an opportunity to be associated with this premier educational institution. We firmly believe that strong educational institutions are the basis of a productive society and a progressive nation.Indeed, these are the very hallmarks of all civilized societies.Excellencies, Ladies and gentlemen, While reconstructing Habibia School, we decided to provide laboratory equipment, computers and innovative computer learning techniques through the "hole-in-the-wall" format. During his visit to India this February, President Karzai had personally witnessed how this computer-learning scheme was generating keen interest amongst the children of India. We hope that the children of Habibia too will explore the frontiers of knowledge and contribute to making Afghanistan a strong, prosperous and peaceful country.India has always laid great emphasis on the development of human resources in our own development strategy. We have today achieved a diversified and advanced education and training infrastructure.I am happy to learn that India remains the preferred destination for pursuing education as well as professional training for Afghan students.We take pride in the fact that the President of Afghanistan is an alumnus of Himachal Pradesh University, which happens to be in India.Currently, we provide less than 100 slots under the ITEC Programme and Colombo Plan for short-term professional training courses and 14 scholarships for pursuing university education in India. We realize that this number is inadequate. We have, therefore, decided to increase it to 1000 scholarship annually to Afghan students. This will include 500 scholarships for university education and 500 slots for short-term professional training courses under the Indian Technical Assistance Programme. In the coming period our efforts would be to further consolidate our participation in the reconstruction efforts of the Government and people of Afghanistan. In this endeavour, I am confident, Habibia School will be a symbol of long lasting friendship between India and Afghanistan.I wish you all success in your noble endeavours.May your path be blessed !Thank you very much.
