I thank you for your gracious welcome, not just on behalf of my delegation and myself but on behalf of the people of India.  The extraordinary warmth and hospitality that we have enjoyed reflects the historic and brotherly bonds between our two peoples.  For me personally, this is a very sentimental journey and a memory I shall always cherish.	Excellency, India and Afghanistan are two nations linked by geography, bound by a shared history and by many common traditions and cultures. Our people have preserved this relationship through the traumatic events that Afghanistan has undergone over the last three decades.  We have shared the pain of the Afghan people caused by the devastation that this nation has suffered.  	That is why we took the pledge in 2001 in Bonn to work with you and other partners to rebuild this ancient land and help it fulfill its destiny as a modern, united country living in peace and prosperity.	Since then, our economic partnership has evolved into a multi-dimensional programme. This encompasses education, health, tele-communications, transport, civil aviation, agriculture and irrigation, industry, power generation and transmission and human resource development.  I have no doubt that this cooperation will only expand in the years to come.  Our vision of this partnership focusses on simultaneously achieving the common goal of regional growth and development for all our peoples.	We have watched with admiration the progress Afghanistan has made under its wise and able leadership over the last three and a half years.  A new Constitution has been adopted. The Afghan people participated in the Presidential elections with unprecedented enthusiasm and especially significant was the large turnout of women.  The democratic process will move forward with the Parliamentary elections next month.  Afghanistan is playing a leading role in tackling the common threat from global terrorism.  We share your concern about the recent upsurge in violence in some of the provinces. We are convinced that given political will and commitment, this challenge can be addressed.	What is important is that the Afghan people have demonstrated that they welcome democracy, desire prosperity and seek to become a source of stability in the region. As democratic societies, we work to foster tolerance and pluralism because it is only in such an environment that our people will realize their true potential.	Afghanistan today faces major developmental challenges and the infrastructure of physical and human resources need re-building.  On behalf of the Government and people of India, I reiterate our commitment to working together to support you in your efforts to make Afghanistan a stable and prosperous state, and in achieving for the people of Afghanistan the dreams that you cherish and that we share.	In closing, I would like to quote from a couplet of your celebrated poet, Bedil, whose life and works are a bridge between our people.  He wrote :"Sobh-e-keshwar Afghan yasmeen baharasteenBu-e-naaz mi ayaad  jalwah gah-e-yaarasteen"[The beautiful Afghan dawn is like blossoms of Jasmine full with the fragrance of love coming from the heart (abode) of a friend.] 	Thank you.
