"Its for me a rare occasion to be presiding over this unique function that you have witnessed today.  Not only because the book that has been released today represents a powerful contribution to the ideas and ideals which had inspired mankind through the ages in mankind's quest for equality, justice and fraternity.  Victory Hugo once said no power on earth can stop an idea whose time has come.  And I suggest to this august audience that Vaiko's book is a remarkable collection of ideas and ideals whose time has truly come.   I am, therefore, truly delighted to be here at this function in honour of my esteemed friend Thiru Vaiko. I am very happy to have this opportunity to release his book, written from the portals of a prison. I had made a promise to him that I would come to release his book, wherever it may be, and I have come today to redeem my promise. Many of our great freedom fighters and leaders of our national movement utilised their time in prison to write works of great historical value and today Vaiko joins that celebrated list. Vaiko quotes somewhere in the book Shakespeare to the effect that sweet of the usage of adversity and in his case he has used its adversity that is his prison to pen a powerful book which contains moral lessons for guidance of mankind in its quest for liberty, equality and fraternity.   I am therefore very  happy that  Vaiko, a great leader of the Tamil people and a political leader of national repute and stature, also made good use of his time in prison to reflect on the times we live in and pen his thoughts in the form of a book.	I have always been fond of Vaiko because he is a man of the masses. In the past fifteen months that I have been Prime Minister, I have received several phone calls from Vaiko. Whenever he was in Delhi, he would always meet me. Of course many people, many political leaders call me and meet me.  But Vaiko is among the few who always calls me only to convey some issue of great national importance or the other relating to the common man, the aam aadmi; to discuss issues affecting the lives of our people and the affairs of state. He always thinks of the welfare of his people. Friends, I sincerely believe that Tamil Nadu is fortunate to have such dedicated, educated, socially conscious and committed leaders. On this dais, we have a glittering array of leaders who are shaping the destinies of this state and also, the nation. Vaiko is a bright star among them. His book shows us the breadth of his personal experience and the depth of his scholarship.  I was struck by the six people he quotes on the inside cover of his book - Arignar Anna, Abraham Lincon, Babasaheb Ambedkar, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Omar Mukhtar and Garibaldi. Each of these quotations tell us a lot about the mental agony of Vaiko when he was in prison. The quotation from the revered leader of the Tamil people, Thiru Annadurai, is a most poignant one, and also the most inspiring. Vaiko quotes Anna as saying: "The rock that blocked the path becomes the stepping-stone for the strong to walk on!" It is indeed a powerful thought. I am sure that during his dark days in prison, Vaiko contemplated a lot on this thought.  It appears that Vaiko has used the prison as a stepping stone, not as a boulder that blocked his way, to rise once again as a leader of his people. This is because he is not a weak man, but a man of great emotional and intellectual strength. The nation is happy that Vaiko is today out of prison and is able to participate in shaping the  political future of Tamil Nadu and our country as a free man.POTA was an act which was liable to be misused and many sections of our society complained about the unnecessary harassment they underwent under this act.  Our Government had made a commitment to repeal POTA and we have faithfully fulfilled the promises we had made at the time of the last elections to repeal it. This was the act under which Vaiko was arrested. Vaiko had opposed POTA even when he was with the NDA. He showed the courage of his convictions and I salute him for having taken a stand, a correct stand. And, ironically, it was he who was arrested under POTA. I am proud today to say that we have repealed POTA. This is a victory for Vaiko.Friends, Tamil Nadu is one of our most developed States with a great and ancient history. Our Government has shown due regard to the greatness of Tamil heritage by recognizing that Tamil as a Classical Language, on the same pedestal as Sanskrit. Tamil is a proud inheritance of our ancient civilization. We are instituting fellowships outside Tamil Nadu for the study of Tamil, awards for the promotion of Tamil and Chairs in Universities. I am sure that Tamil will surely become popular outside Tamil Nadu in times to come. Already, musicians like Ilayaraja and Rahman have made music composed in Chennai popular all over the country. The Tamil people have worked hard to make this state one of the most prosperous state of our country. Today Tamil Nadu ranks among the frontline States of India. I recall the great contribution of leaders like Thiru Rajagopalachari, Thiru Kamaraj, Thiru Annadurai and Thiru Venkatraman. Thiru C Subramaniam, a colleague of Indira Gandhiji, who was one of the architects of our Green Revolution at the national level, and was the architect of the industrial development of Tamil Nadu.  One of the greatest scholar statesman Dr. Kalaigniar is fortunately here to bless Vaiko.  The time has come to once again regain the glory of Tamil Nadu and take this State forward. I am sure that leaders like Thiru Vaiko and others will take this state forward. The central government is doing all that it can to help the state in all possible ways. A huge automobile testing facility has been recently approved for Chennai. CDOT is setting up an R&D; laboratory in broadband wireless technology in Chennai. The Sethusamudram project another pact project dear to Vaiko will alter the transport systems in this region. We will continue to support this state to make it a leading state in our country. I hope all those who want to understand the political philosophy and the personality of Vaiko will read this book with great interest. I compliment Vaiko for writing this most gripping tale of his struggle for justice. It should inspire generations of his followers and make the name of Vaiko shine in golden colour on the bright horizon of Tamil Nadu. I wish Vaiko best of luck and my best wishes in all his future endeavours. May his path be blessed."
