"These have been five very busy and productive days. I have met many leaders, interacted with several groups and carried forward discussions on a wide range of issues which are important to us. In France, I was touched by President Chirac going out of his way to receive me so soon after his recovery. I was even more moved by the warmth with which President Chirac received me and the meeting of minds that was apparent. Our discussions ranged over bilateral matters and global issues and I was convinced that the strategic relationship India enjoys with France is a source of stability and creativity in the multi-polar world order that both countries value. We agreed that we would work together intensively over the next several months to finalise framework agreements in defence cooperation and in cooperation in the field of nuclear energy, in time for the President's visit to India in February 2006. We also agreed that we would work together on issues of global concern such as the urgent need to raise resources for development, on which India and France have traditionally taken a leading position. I assured the President that we would support a French initiative in this regard. I also reviewed the agenda of bilateral cooperation with Prime Minister de Villepin and was impressed by his enthusiastic commitment to the promotion of Indo-French ties. I thanked President Chirac and PM Villepin for French support for India on a variety of issues including our participation in Galileo in ITER, for India's candidature for permanent membership of the Security Council. We have agreed to conclude at an early date agreements for cooperation both in defence and in civil nuclear energy. In Paris I also met an impressive group of French businessmen and CEOs and was struck by the interest they displayed in India, and by their enthusiasm for investment prospects in the Indian economy. I had a very stimulating exchange with French scholars who work on India in a variety of disciplines. I underlined to them the importance we attach to deepening educational and academic exchanges. Here in New York, my time has been balanced between activities relating to and on the margins of the UN and some important bilateral meetings. Apart from participating in the High Level Plenary Meeting of this 60th session of the UN General Assembly, I joined President Bush and UN Secretary-General Annan in the launching of the UN Democracy Fund to which we have made a significant contribution. I also met the Presidents of South Africa and Brazil in the context of the IBSA Forum. This brings together our three major developing countries across three continents and as it develops, this forum can have a beneficial influence on subjects of topical importance. I suggested to the group that we should identify the specific sectors in which our combined strengths can have the maximum impact for the common good of developing countries such as in health, science and technology and energy. The Presidents of South Africa and Brazil accepted the suggestion and our Foreign Ministers will take this forward over coming months. I have had several important bilateral meetings. The day I arrived in New York on September 13, I met President Bush. Following soon after my visit to Washington in July, we reaffirmed our commitment to work together in implementing the major cooperative steps proposed in the Joint Statement of July 18. I reiterated our invitation for President Bush to visit India early and he agreed to do so. Yesterday I meet President Putin. As always, I found that we share perceptions and objectives with Russia that exemplify our strategic partnership and a common vision to deepen this further. We agreed that this relationship is deeply valued by both sides and we will make a positive effort to intensify it in economic and trade matters. This meeting was a good prelude to my own visit to Russia later this year. On September 14, I met President Hu Jintao of China. This was our fourth meeting this year, we met in Jakarta and then in Moscow, at Gleneagles and now in New York. We have established a strategic and cooperative partnership with China and we see each other as working together for stability in Asia and the world. We agreed to work together and, in the first instance, to set higher targets for bilateral trade, even beyond the doubling in value to which we committed ourselves earlier this year. Night before last, also on September 14, I met President Musharraf and hosted him and his delegation to dinner. You have seen the Joint Statement we issued at the end of the meeting. This reflects our discussions in which we reviewed the entire bilateral agenda encompassed in the Composite Dialogue. We shall continue these discussions, and our engagement with Pakistan at different levels with a view to achieving the good neighbourly relations to which we aspire."
