I am truly delighted to be here today among so many friends and among those who put together my morning newspaper! I have been a loyal reader of The Tribune all my life. It is now a habit that I see no reason to give up. Like my morning cup of tea and my morning walk! There is no better way of starting a day than getting your favourite newspaper. There is no better way of assuring oneself that all is well with the world, than seeing your newspaper at your doorstep every morning. Reading a newspaper is a habit, a second nature to all of us. It competes today with other media for our attention, but I cannot imagine it will ever be replaced. Well, I can speak for myself and say that I cannot imagine life without a morning dose of The Tribune! Even when I lived in distant lands, I would make sure that The Tribune was delivered to me.	I am even more delighted to be here because The Tribune is edited by my friend, Shri H K Dua, and is run by a trust of eminent and patriotic men for whom I have great affection and regard. Justice Pathak, Justice Sodhi, Dr Bambha, Mr Talwar and Mr Vohra. I compliment them, and the entire staff of The Tribune, for upholding the highest standards of good journalism. This great newspaper's journey through 125 years is a remarkable testimony to the vision of its founder Sardar Dayal Singh Majithia. Imbued with liberal values and committed to fight obscurantism and superstition, Sardar Majithia wanted to use the Tribune as a means of reforming society.  He was passionately committed to the education and social upliftment of downtrodden sections of society. I was deeply impressed to learn that at its very inception in  February 1881, the pioneers who launched Tribune had put out a statement of their objectives in words that ring true even today. The statement called "About Ourselves",  boldly declared that Tribune had no pet theories to maintain and no personal interest to serve. That it was not motivated by pecuniary gain. That it believed that public good was advanced more by charity and moderation than by rancor and harsh words. The Tribune hoped "to advocate the cause of the mute masses fairly and temperately".  It wanted to represent public opinion and to create and educate such opinion.  It steered itself clear of any particular class, creed or party line and championed the cause of the people and resolved to speak against class interests in case they clashed with the welfare of the masses. It thus stood for the people and made journalism an instrument of service to the people.Over the years, Tribune has been well served by a galaxy of eminent editors. During the days of the freedom struggle, Mahatma Gandhi often came to the defence of Tribune's editors like Kalinath Ray and Surendranath Ghosh when they bothered British authorities with their defiant writing. More recently we have all admired the professionalism and wisdom of such eminent editors as Prem Bhatia, V.N. Narayanan, Hari Jai Singh and of course, H.K. Dua.  	Today The Tribune has acquired for itself an enviable position as the window to northern India. In this capacity, The Tribune has a national and a global role to play. This region stands out as one of our more developed and progressive states. Rising like a phoenix from the ashes of partition, a traumatized people have worked hard to rebuild their homes, their lives and their livelihoods. The inspiring leadership of our freedom fighters; and, the energy and creativity of the people have made this region one of our most dynamic ones. I salute their enterprise and dedication.	This region has become the granary of our sub-continent. This it did when every patriotic farmer of this blessed land took to the Green Revolution. The region also abounds in fruits. Today, the time has come for a Second Green Revolution.  It is my sincere hope that our Government will be able to put in place policies that will make this possible. We are investing in infrastructure to help the farmers and traders diversify their product profile. I believe we must do more to link India to the global market. The modernization of Amritsar airport will be an important step in this direction.	But, the region must also rapidly develop a strong industrial base. We should all feel happy that Punjab has come out of a long period of distress and trouble. It is now once again on the road to development. The renewal of industrial activity in the State augurs well. Haryana and Himachal too are rapidly becoming attractive industrial destinations. With the peace process picking up pace in Jammu and Kashmir, I am sure that this state too will gradually become a participant in the growth processes propelling India forward. All these states compete with others to attract investment. The media can play an important role in this regard. 	I am confident that the workers and farmers of the region will take its agricultural and industrial economy forward. I do, however, think that focus should be given on the development of the knowledge economy and services sector. Here too the media can play a role by bringing the experience of other parts of the country and the world to the people here. 	I believe the media has an important role to play in shaping public opinion and attitudes so that these keep in step with economic evolution. The modernization of the mind must accompany the modernization of the economy. The media must play its due role in influencing public opinion so that liberal values are reinforced. I was shocked to discover that there has been a sharp increase in female foeticide in the Punjab. This is a blot on the name of a valiant and gallant people. The Punjabi is proud of his son as much as he is of his daughter. Our daughters have contributed as much to the glory of Punjab as our sons. I hope the media will take up in a big way a campaign for gender empowerment, for the fair treatment of the fairer sex.	I am convinced that our nation will make rapid progress on the material front in years to come. I am concerned that we must make similar progress on the intellectual front as well. I have asked Sam Pitroda and Pushp Bhargava to give leadership to the Knowledge Commission and give us ideas on how we can strengthen our knowledge base. This programme cannot be just a programme of building new institutions. It must also be one of shaping new attitudes. Of instilling greater curiosity in the minds of our children, of promoting liberal values, of reinforcing respect for the core values of our Constitution and our Republic.	Newspapers have a larger role to play in a democracy, especially in a developing country like ours. They cannot be mere platforms of entertainment and gossip, they cannot be mere purveyors of prejudice and petulance. They must have a larger purpose. They must serve a larger purpose. Above all, they must contribute to a nation's intellectual vibrancy. I am reminded of the words of The Tribune's founder Sardar Dayal Singh Majithia, who said in 1880, before launching the paper: "Down with shams and hypocrisies which played such a prominent part in the life of the Indian people! Weed out old and worn-out customs, stupid prejudices and superstitious beliefs.  Do away with poverty, misery and ignorance and pull down the false gods.  March with the times, feed the good, trample down the evil and create a new India on the new forces of vitality and old elements of wisdom."	Such thoughts should inspire you even today, for our world is still in need of them. A billion and more Indians are waiting, aspiring, yearning to take their due place in the world. To live a life of peace, well-being, self-respect and dignity. There is much that we must do to realize the dreams that inspire us. I hope The Tribune will play the role its founders sought to light the way ahead. May your path be blessed. Jai Hind!
