I am delighted to be here in Tripura today, to a far corner of the country which is beautiful and enchanting. I am happy to have been associated with the start of work for the largest power project in this region since Independence. The North East of our country may be far from New Delhi. But, as all of you know, it is close to my heart. I am an adopted son of the region. I represent Assam in our Parliament and I have always promoted the interests of all North Eastern States in Parliament. Therefore, I am all the more happy that this major project has finally taken shape with the combined efforts of the state and central governments. This power project is of immense value to the region. Not only is it the largest power project here but it also entails an investment of over Rupees 3900 crores. This power project will provide a major impetus to the economies of Tripura, Assam, Mizoram and Meghalaya and the entire North Eastern region as a whole. For a region acutely dependent on hydroelectric power - a source that faces seasonal difficulties in the dry season - this gas based thermal power project will be a great asset. It will be a stable source of electricity throughout the year and will increase the availability of power in all seasons. To the state of Tripura, it will provide additional revenue and employment. It will provide a boost to the industrial growth of the state. As power supply becomes more reliable, the state will become a more attractive destination for industrial investment.  I believe that Tripura's foremost priority must be economic and social development. I have often wondered at the fact that despite an abundance of natural resource s and human resources, why we have failed to truly unlock the potential of this state and the region. We have not been able to fully take advantage of many economic opport6unities. If the North East has lagged behind the rest of our country, it is partly because we have not developed the connectivity of the region. The region needs new investment and employment opportunities. It needs better infrastructure. It certainly needs improved connectivity - road, rail, air, and telecom connectivity. Tucked away in this beautiful corner, you must not feel you are in an island of tranquility isolated from a fast changing world.I truly believe that Tripura and the entire North East stands at the threshold of a historic opportunity. A new era of possibilities is very much around the corner. Trade with our neighbours is expanding. We hope to very soon sign a free trade agreement with the ASEAN region. Hopefully, a similar agreement will take place with the SAARC countries in the form of SAFTA. Once the existing barriers to trade come down and transport bottlenecks are resolved, I foresee a future where the North East become our bridge to dynamic, fast growing South East Asia. Tripura too is well poised to benefit from these initiatives. It is for us to grasp the opportunities and march towards new horizons. Our Government has paid special attention to all the States in this region. My previous visits to Manipur and Assam helped in taking forward the development process there. Our focus has been both on economic development and human development. At the same time, we have also paid special attention to the social and political empowerment of the people of this region.The UPA Government, and the Congress Party, has had a special affection for the people of this region for decades. Pandit Nehru, Indiraji and Rajiv Gandhi - all of them had a soft corner for the people here and their vibrant culture. For the people of Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh , Meghalaya, Manipur and, of course, the people of Tripura. This has enabled the Party to have deep roots in the political life of this region.I am, therefore, particularly happy that we have taken up many infrastructure projects to improve the connectivity and development in the region. We are very keen to ensure rail connectivity to Tripura. The Kumarghat - Agartala railway line has been approved as a National project and is likely to be completed by March 2007. The Government is investing Rs. 700 crores in this project. We are committed to better road connectivity as well. As many as 6 projects from Tripura have been included in the Special Road Programme for the North Eastern region. National Highway - 44 will be 4-laned. The capital city of Agartala will be connected to East-West Corridor at Jorabad near Guwahati on National Highway - 37. This project also includes connectivity to 36 district headquarters with National Highways through State roads. I am sure that in a few years, the road infrastructure in Tripura will be at par with rest of the country. I am aware that Tripura has been facing the problem of extremism with some misguided youths taking to the path of violence. We are also aware that there are instances of extremist groups taking shelter and operating from the territories of neighhbouring countries. Some agencies associated with foreign Governments and other elements inimical to us, have also been assisting such extremist groups in their anti-national activities. I appreciate the fact that in the last couple of years, the security scenario in Tripura has shown some improvement. The surrender by over 200 cadres belonging to various insurgent groups has improved the security environment here. The Government will do whatever is necessary on its part to ensure that such youth are able to join the mainstream. The Central Government has a constructive rehabilitation package for this purpose and I would urge our young people to benefit from it.I am also happy to know that the border fencing work along the Indo-Bangladesh border is progressing well. This should further bring down insurgent activity in Tripura. I  commend the Government of Tripura for its efforts in maintaining law and order in the State. I am sure the State will prosper in all fields in years to come. I am very keen that all North Eastern States, especially Tripura, should develop close linkages with the vibrant economies of South East Asia. It is necessary for us to see that appropriate infrastructure facilities are developed in Tripura so that proper linkages with neighbouring countries can be established. We are discussing some ideas with the Government of Mayanmar to improve our connectivity with South East Asia. I sincerely hope that the Government of Bangladesh will also consider re-establishing road and rail connectivity with India. This can enable win-win investment proposals in infrastructure development from which both Bangladesh and India can benefit. Increased regional cooperation will contribute to greater trust between nighbours. I am sure that this project on which work will begin today will bring prosperity and happiness to the state. I wish you all well.
