"I rise to thank you and the Honourable Deputy Chairman at conclusion of the 206th session of the Rajya Sabha. Sir, today, we come to the end of an important session, in the last days of an eventful year. On reflection, given the legislative work we have been able to conduct, despite disruptions of the proceedings, perhaps we can take encouragement that our democratic system still successfully delivers development. This session, and the last 19 months have been a period of intensive work. I think it would be fair to say that we have put in place landmark measures to transform the lives of our brethren. The passage of the Constitution (One Hundred and Fourth) Amendment Bill (2005) earlier this week will certainly be remembered as a momentous occasion in our quest for social justice and in the effort to create an inclusive society, through the medium of universalised access to education. This, and other legislative work has paralleled our Government's consistent focus to empower the aam aadmi, improve governance and generate rapid economic growth on a foundation of inclusiveness and equity. Our hope and expectation is that newly launched programmes such as Bharat Nirman, the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, and the revamping programme for co-operative credit institutions will heighten the nation-wide impact anticipated from the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the National Rural Health Mission. We are also working to eliminate inadequacies of infrastructure, which hinder the economic development of our country. At the same time, we are working to buttress our developmental programmes by enhancing the nation's security, internally and externally. In foreign policy, we have made consistent efforts to further expand relations with all major powers and to improve our ties in our own region. Domestically, we are carrying forward a consistent agenda of engaging with those willing to shun violence, while resolutely acting against those who deal in the business of terror. Of course, there is no doubt that we could have done much more for the people of our country. As representatives of our people, we must always seek to do more for our people if India is to achieve its due place in the comity of nations. But the fact that we have been able to bring forth so many new Bills - some tabled, and some that have been passed - is a good sign. We have discussed a variety of topical issues, which in itself is a testimony to the representatives of our democratic institutions. Apart from the Constitution (One Hundred and Fourth) Amendment Bill, the House also passed 12 other Bills, including a Bill for the creation of Commissions for Protection of Child Rights. The Disaster Management Bill, 2005, passed by the House was formulated in the wake of the Tsunami that occurred one year ago. Its passage was timely, coming as it did after a year in which floods, earthquake and heavy snowfall and avalanches created havoc in parts of our country. In this context, I must pay tribute to our citizens and our friends world-wide, who stepped forward so generously to help people in distress. These tragedies should remain a reminder of the innate humanism of our own people. In these cynical times, when greed and the quest of personal aggrandisement dominate our headlines, the generosity of our people in caring for their brethren at times of disaster should restore our faith in humanity. I cannot conclude without referring to the unfortunate events that have come to light in the last two weeks. We have had no choice but to act to protect the integrity of this citadel of our democratic way of life. It has been unfortunately necessary to do so, since there is no cause that is greater than the need to ensure that our people's faith in the highest seat of our democracy is never weakened. Nevertheless, while we take action, as we must, it is important to remember that a few wrongdoers in any profession cannot represent the majority of honest and hard-working people. We cannot tarnish all with the same brush. That only adds to the cynicism in us. I am glad that we have initiated a debate on political funding. I hope we will soon be able to cleanse our democracy of the taint of greed, the influence of money and the desire for ill-gotten gains. I conclude by wishing you all Honourable Members of this august House, and the people of our country a prosperous and rewarding New Year.
