"It gives me immense pleasure to be with you on this auspicious occasion of the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new CBI Head Office in Delhi. This has been a long-standing need of CBI and I am happy that today we are taking a step forward to provide the CBI its own home. I attach great importance to the work entrusted to the CBI. I am happy to say that over the years, CBI, with its efficiency and impartiality has earned a name for itself. It is a tribute to the good work done by all of you that the executive, the legislature, the judiciary and the people of our country at large, repose high faith and trust in your professionalism, in your capability and in your effectiveness. I congratulate you for having contributed to the growth of CBI as the premier investigating agency of our country. I greatly value the professional autonomy and integrity of your organisation. It is my solemn commitment to our people that our Government will never interfere in your professional work, as indeed it has not since we assumed office. From the perspective of investigative and law enforcement agencies, the fast changing national and international political, socio-economic and technological scenario warrants profound, far-reaching and continuous changes in investigating procedures, practices and institutional re-engineering. New organizational structures, redefining of priorities, adoption of new technologies, mobilisation of adequate resources and enabling legislations are all required to combat the challenges that our country faces. Due to its organisational structure, vast experience and an immensely talented pool of trained and committed personnel, the CBI is today uniquely placed to seize the initiative and consolidate its status as the country's apex agency excelling in investigative methods & technologies, an intelligence storehouse and a centre of research & development. If the CBI has to so consolidate its position, it has to further transform itself and the initiative for such a transformation has also to come from within the organisation. CBI should thus have a forward-looking vision of transforming itself into a world-class specialised agency. I expect you to set a goal of leadership for yourself in the 21st century with a time bound strategic plan expressly articulating redefined institutional priorities, goals and objectives consistent with your organisational vision and mission. I also expect your organisation to be geared towards the goal of promoting good governance. This calls for hard work, total transparency and objectivity in your functioning. The CBI has come under repeated public scrutiny, and will continue to do so. There is some concern that your record in securing prosecution and conviction of offenders has been somewhat weak. You will also have to address issues of image, morale and brand building. I am sure you have leadership, which is capable of meeting these challenges. Permit me to share with you my thoughts on some key issues that our law enforcement agencies must focus on in years to come. Terrorism is the biggest national security threat our country faces today. Combating this threat presents unique and unprecedented challenges. The tactics adopted by terrorists in planning, sponsoring and executing their crimes, often with the assistance of state-sponsors, require constant study and analysis. The convergence of terror dealers and conventional criminals, presents obvious and acute dangers to our polity. Therefore, our counter-terrorism culture and organization have to shift from a reactive to a more proactive mode. We have to develop a nationally driven, fully integrated Intelligence and Investigative Programme. This should involve institutional mechanisms for improved information sharing between various central agencies, state governments and international counter-terrorism partners. We should enhance our capability to be pro-active by generating and analysing intelligence, and by creating an environment that is inhospitable for terrorists. We must deny terrorists and their supporters the capacity to plan, organize, and carry out logistical, operational, and support activities. This requires developing training programmes and proficiency standards that enhance investigative capability of counter-terrorism personnel. This cannot be over-emphasised. The law enforcement machinery of the country, particularly the CBI, must pursue terrorism investigations and intelligence operations through well-trained investigators using the best available tools, including state-of-the-art forensics. New technologies and globalisation pose new challenges for crime detection and crime prevention. While these new technologies do enhance our capability to deal with crime, they also offer terrorists, drug traffickers, crime syndicates easier and cheaper access to means to perpetuate their crimes. Technological advances also provide criminals with the potential to stay ahead of law enforcement counter-measures. Our country's vulnerability to cyber crime is escalating as our economy and critical infrastructure become increasingly reliant on interdependent computer networks and the Internet. Large-scale computer attacks on our critical infrastructure and economy can have potentially devastating results. The ever-changing techniques used by terrorists, criminals and other anti-national elements require CBI and other law enforcement investigators and professionals to possess highly specialized technological & computer-based skills. Besides ongoing programmes aiming at up-gradation of skills and technology, external expertise and talents should be actively scouted for and fostered. The CBI could take a lead in establishing and implementing new technical capabilities, databases, protocols, policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines and also support law enforcement operations of other agencies in the country by way of enhancement of their scientific and forensic response capabilities. Let me now turn my gaze inward and consider how CBI and other law enforcing agencies should deal with corruption in public life. Corruption is not only a social cancer eating into the vitals of our institutions of governance and our society, but is also a threat to our well-being and national security. It is unfortunate that it seems as if many of us have become far too tolerant towards corruption in public life. A multi-pronged intervention is needed from policy makers, law enforcement agencies and all right thinking people to stem the rot. A comprehensive approach involving political, electoral, judicial, and police reforms coupled with decentralization and accountability must be the essence of an all out assault on this deep-seated malady. I sincerely urge all our political parties and patriotic citizens to adopt a policy of Zero Tolerance towards corruption. The National Common Minimum Programme makes a solemn pledge to the people of our country to provide a government that is corruption-free, transparent and accountable at all times, and to provide an administration that is responsible and responsive. And this we have endeavoured to provide. The CBI should deter by aggressively pursuing all cases against corrupt elements without fear or favour. People, processes, practices and institutions showing particular susceptibility and propensity for corruption should be spotted, isolated and methodically acted against to root out this malady. Our government will appreciate if based on its experience and analysis, the CBI could suggest useful improvements in systems, procedures, rules and regulations of the concerned arms of governance which could help reduce the scope for corruption in our public life. As a society, we must evolve to a level where probity becomes a way of life, where honesty is a routine expectation. If we have integrity, then nothing else matters, if we don't have integrity then also nothing else matters. I firmly believe that we must set personal standards of integrity as public servants and the message should flow from the top downwards and not the other way round. We must, of course, make a distinction between the occasional genuine mistake by an honest official and acts driven by deliberate mal-intent. While taking measures against corruption in public life, there is a need to ensure that such measures do not undermine independent initiative and decision-making capacity of those assigned the duty and authority to do so. The crucial question for you here is how far your investigative systems can make this vital distinction between genuine error of judgement and deliberate malafide on the part of public servants. Otherwise, decision-making processes can be easily paralysed to our great peril. For this purpose, the CBI should develop an understanding of decision-making processes within the Government in their totality and its investigations should not be confined to legalese and mere fault-finding. The CBI needs to re-appraise its approach, methodology and the perspective so as to facilitate ongoing developmental processes rather than being perceived as a stumbling block in certain circles. I often hear that the CBI takes far too long a time to complete its investigations. How far is this true, I cannot say, however, you need to seriously ponder over this issue and take necessary remedial measures. I am happy to learn that the Director CBI has constituted a Committee to go into the issue of empowerment of Investigating Officers and Prosecutors and suggest appropriate remedial measures. These ranks are the backbone of the organisation. I hope the steps taken will improve their efficiency of performance of your officers and your organisation. There is also a need to provide incentives to those who work in your organization so that you can attract highly talented, bright minds. After all, human resource is your biggest asset. Our government will favourably consider proposals to provide such incentives. I am aware of the proposal to which my colleague, Shri Suresh Pachauri made a reference about giving an additional allowance to staff at certain ranks. Our Government is favourably inclined and will take an appropriate decision in the matter very soon. The CBI also needs to modernize of its procedures, techniques and technologies for addressing the challenge of white collar and economic crimes. You should use your expertise, criminal investigative resources, and strong relationships with regulatory agencies to handle these crimes in order to maintain public confidence in the country's financial institutions and our financial markets. The CBI should also strive to expand its intelligence base to identify methodologies to tackle money laundering by individuals, enterprises, and institutions and create barriers to the entry for tainted money into our financial system. Another issue we need to consider is if we need an apex agency to serve as a national focal point for crime & forensic information to provide adequate, accurate and timely assistance to various law enforcement agencies and regulators. The CBI may consider the feasibility of developing a centralised data base of terrorists, insurgents and organised criminal syndicates and share it with state police forces. Given the unique status amongst the law enforcement agencies of the country, the CBI should seize the initiative to emerge as a truly world-class, multidisciplinary investigative agency. I do admit your mission is onerous. But, I do have faith in your capabilities and your commitment. As the father of our Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, once said "A small body of determined spirits, fired by an unquenchable faith in their mission, can alter the course of human history". I am sure the CBI can do it. I am sure that the CBI will continue with its tradition of excellence. I, once again, convey my deep appreciation of the excellent work done by the CBI in the past and I convey to all of you my very best wishes for the future."
