Ladies and Gentlemen,	I am delighted to be here to give away the award instituted in the name of a distinguished scholar, a great son of Assam and an eminent Indian. I pay tribute to the memory of the great Sanskrit scholar, the Late Professor Krishna Kant Handique. 	I am happy that this year we are giving this award to Dr. Ram Karan Sharma, who has also distinguished himself as an authority on Sanskrit language and literature. Sanskrit is the basis of our shared heritage, our ancient civilization, the foundation of our mellifluous linguistic traditions and the fountainhead of ancient wisdom, knowledge and insight. 	Coming here after attending the Rajiv Gandhi Computer Literacy Programme I recall the observations of scientists, from across the world, who regard Sanskrit as the most computer friendly language. Whether one considers Sanskrit from the ancient or modern point of view it is of immense significance for mankind. 	Any attempt to understand and learn this magnificent language and transmit it for the enlightenment of mankind deserves appreciation.  Professor K.K. Handique belonged to the rare category of individuals who dedicated his life to the cause of Sanskrit studies. As the founder Principal of J.B. College and the founder Vice Chancellor of Guwahati University, he distinguished himself as an educationist, a builder of educational institutions and an authority on many European languages.  Prof. Handique was held in high esteem for his learning and scholarship in Sanskrit. His brilliant performance in Sanskrit literature right from his student days and his passion for promoting it made him one of the venerated figures not only in Assam but also in the whole country.  	It is said that when he went to Europe to pursue higher studies he remained firmly stuck to the Indian ways of life primarily because of the training he received in India as a student of Sanskrit. While learning European languages such as Latin, Greek, French, German, Russian, Italian and Spanish he understood their evolution in the context of the evolution of Sanskrit language. An ardent lover of the Sanskrit language and literature he brought to bear his understanding of Sanskrit in every facet of his life. His contributions as a defender of Indian culture, his contributions as an educationist, and above all his contributions as an Assamese and an Indian to diverse streams of knowledge owe a lot to his mastery of Sanskrit language. A man deeply imbued with the ethos and culture of Sanskrit his consciousness and numerous actions profoundly reflected that indelible impression.	Dr.Ram Karan Sharma richly deserves the award instituted in the name of an extraordinary personality like Professor K.K.Handique. In fact Dr. Sharma represents the academic commitment and scholarly tradition of Prof. Handique and has excelled in the field of Sanskrit literature by doing outstanding work.  Like Prof. Handique Dr. Sharma performed brilliantly as a student and received recognition for his erudition and research in Sanskrit studies.   He has played a valuable role in promoting Sanskrit language and literature. His reputation as a renowned scholar of Sanskrit and his academic accomplishments earned him laurels from beyond the frontiers of our own country. As a visiting professor at Columbia and Chicago Universities he established himself as a scholar of international standing. Due to his exceptional contributions as a Sanskrit scholar Dr. Sharma adorns such prestigious positions as the   President (Emeritus) of the World Sanskrit Association, a Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society (London) and a Member of the American Oriental Society. Occupying such coveted positions at the international level he has served the cause of Sanskrit with distinction and brought laurels to himself and the country.	The K.K.Handique memorial award 2004-06 is yet another feather in his cap. I congratulate him on this occasion and wish him health, happiness, scholarly satisfaction and many more years for serving the cause of Sanskrit language and literature. 	I also compliment those who have instituted this award because it is a symbol of Assam's growing regard for intellectual development. The people of Assam have distinguished themselves for centuries as a learned and a highly talented people. I salute them for their great intellectual, cultural and aesthetic attainments. May your path be blessed.
