Vanakkam! ! I am truly happy to be back here with the people of Tamil Nadu today. I am also happy to be associated with the foundation stone laying ceremony for 4-laning 5 stretches of the Krishnagiri - Salem - Madurai section of NH-7. The people of Tamil Nadu have a special place in our hearts and minds. And you know that you have an even more special place in our Government! Some of my most important colleagues in Delhi hail from Tamil Nadu. I and the people of India have greatly benefited from the work of my colleagues like Thiru Chidambaram, Thiru T R Baalu, Thiru Mani Shankar Aiyer, Thiru Raja, Thiru Dayanidhi Maran, Dr Ramadoss and so many other ministers from your State.  I have also benefited from the advice and wisdom of Dr. Karunanidhi from time to time. Thiru Ramadoss and Thiru Vaiko and other leaders too have helped the UPA government in taking the country forward. The UPA government is committed to the rapid development of Tamil Nadu. We are also conscious of the great history of the Tamil people. Your language Tamil, rivals Sanskrit in antiquity and in its beauty. Our Government is proud of the fact that we have restored to Tamil its ancient glory by recognizing it as a Classical Language of great antiquity on par with Sanskrit. We are committed to the full development of this great language of a great people. We have also fulfilled an age old dream of the Tamil people by sanctioning and beginning work on the Sethusamudram Project. Sethusamudram will reduce the travel time between the east and west coasts of India. It would lead to the all round development of the coastal areas of Tamil Nadu. It will change the economy of this region.This time, I am happy to visit Tamil Nadu to associate myself again with major development programmes in power and roads. The new investments we are making will contribute greatly to making Tamil Nadu one of the leading states of the country. I am, therefore, happy to be here for beginning work on this highway. Friends,I have repeatedly said that our country needs world class infrastructure.  We have set for ourselves a growth target of 7- 8% over the next decade. For this, we need greater investment in infrastructure.  In roads, ports, telephones, airports, railways and power. Good infrastructure helps industry and trade. Hence, the importance of such projects. India has one of the largest road networks in the world. Our Government has given highest priority to the development of both National Highways and rural roads. We have launched Bharat Nirman under which we will provide a connecting road, a telephone, safe drinking water and electricity in every village in 4 years. Improved road connectivity will help in taking your agricultural produce to markets and creates new possibilities for boosting economic growth, employment generation and the reduction of poverty.  The UPA Government in New Delhi is investing thousands of crores in road construction. We are also providing funds to State Governments to improve highways and roads.  Friends, We are implementing a number of big projects for upgradation of National Highways. We have an ambitious programme of Rs 170,000 crores for expanding and improving our road network. National Highways are being 4- laned and 6- laned right across the country. Most of these works will be taken up on the basis of Public - Private Partnership. In the last one year we have awarded contracts for nearly 5,500 km of new roads. This is the highest ever since the start of the National Highways Development Project. I compliment my colleague, Thiru Baalu for his excellent work in this field. I am indeed happy that Tamil Nadu has been a major beneficiary of our programme. Out of 4200 kms. Of national highways in the state, 3250 kms have already been approved for four laning.  These projects when completed will give a big boost to the economy of the State. It will boost the industrial and agricultural sectors and encourage tourism.Friends, The UPA government is committed to eradicating poverty, illiteracy and disease. The National Rural Health Mission will ensure in a few years that we will be able to provide basic health care facilities to our rural people. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act will ensure that no one willing to do work will go hungry. It is a revolutionary step towards eradicating poverty. It will be implemented through our panchayat system. Dindigul is covered under this act. I have already mentioned about Bharat Nirman. We have helped the weavers of Tamil Nadu immensely by removing CENVAT on cotton textiles completely. I am confident that the way we are managing the economy and with all the steps we are taking for development, we will be in a position to eradicate poverty within a decade. Our government is committed to this goal and no stone will be left unturned to achieve this.I am happy that five road projects are being taken up on the Krishnagiri - Madurai Section of NH-7. The total project cost of the two projects is Rs. 1440 crores.  Besides a four laned road, they would also provide service roads, wayside amenities, space for trucks to park and bus stops for the convenience of the people. I am sure that the completion of both these projects will bring prosperity and happiness to the people of Tamil Nadu.  My best wishes are with you all.  	Jai Hind.
