 "As I stand before you, I am reminded of an incident. Once, Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru was introduced to the great artiste - Mrs. Subbulakshmi and he said - 'what am I - a mere Prime Minister before you the queen of emotions'. And I stand before you, a bare Prime Minister, with this galaxy of talent and creativity and I truly thank you from the bottom of my heart for the honour that you have done me to address you the tenth birth anniversary. Let me say that I hope to witness many more such anniversaries. And as an Urdu poet said -  and that is my wish and prayer that your organisation will go from strength to strength and serve the cause of freedom, of creativity, of adventure and enterprise which your membership is an embodiment of. I am very happy to join you in celebrating this tenth anniversary. My best wishes are with you on this occasion for another decade of excellence in your journalistic endeavours. It is an interesting historical fact that the IWPC's establishment corresponds approximately with a momentous transformation of the Indian media from the early 90s. Therefore, your tenth anniversary serves as a useful milestone to pause and reflect on our media's journey over the past decade or so. I believe that there has been a pervasive transformation that has dominated the Indian social landscape since the early 90s, and the media has been just as much the mirror reflecting that process, as it has been affected by those momentous changes. Curiously, though, the evolution of our media through what could be called a "media spring" does not appear to have been adequately documented. This is something I trust you will find ways to address in years to come. And so over the past decade and more, as rapid technological change impacts upon us, a more competitive operating environment has hastened the emergence of a technologically new and more democratic media. Both technological change and democratisation have been mutually reinforcing phenomena. Therefore, with the expansion of facilities such as the internet, low cost publishing and cheaper access to editing and recording facilities, the range and variety of print and visual media that is now available in India would, I think, have been inconceivable to anyone in the early 90s.  In this context, the emergence of your organisation as an effective representation of the interests of women in the media is one manifestation of a process of broad basing of the media. This process is plainly visible in the television channels that we watch and in the newspapers that we read every morning, and the country is the better for it. It is a fact that many of you in this room are in positions of prominence and indeed you exert great influence and I am very happy that that indeed is the case. Happily, there is no one today who would seriously argue that these are examples of "political correctness"; it is now universally acknowledged that you have secured these positions on merit and on the basis of sustained hard work. Yet despite the growing number of examples that gender biases are getting reduced over time, I think it is fair to say that we have quite a distance to go before we can truly say that women have successfully broken through the proverbial glass ceiling. More than the question of posts and positions, I would venture to say that our media still has some distance to traverse to ensure genuine gender equality. Further effort is necessary, both in terms of creating a congenial, safe and equitable working environment and in terms of the image of women portrayed in the media. In this, I would include the goal of ensuring that there is adequate space for the representation of women's views and the problems that they face in balanced and non-stereotyped portrayal of women is one of the strategic objectives of women participating in the media sector, as identified by the Fourth World Conference on, Women. It also serves a wider, societal and social function that of creating a fair and a decent society, free of biases on the basis of gender. I am confident that your organisation is monitoring how well our media is addressing these important objectives. Since the eventual goal is the creation of a harmonious society in our country, it is self-evident that there is a broader role for Government in this process as well. This ranges from ensuring that our women are equipped with the basic ability to compete as equals in the job market, to ensuring that rules to prevent offensive portrayals of women are enforced. Let me assure you that our Government is committed to the realization of these fundamental objectives. With the assistance of non-governmental agencies and organizations such as yours, we will work honestly and sincerely to ensure that we do create a more equitable, gender-neutral society in our country.  Let me however add a caveat. While the Government has a substantial role to play, I think there is little doubt that in a democratic framework, Government must not arrogate to itself the right to dictate values. These must evolve consensually, along with social and political education. Society, in the form of pressure groups and representative organizations, must promote evolution of the process whereby both genders are treated equally. Organizations like yours can play therefore a very important role in shaping public opinion in a manner that helps Government to pursue truly enlightened policies.  While yours is an organization of women in media, I hope you will not restrict yourselves only to gender related issues alone, important as they are. I would urge you to also pay attention to larger societal issues confronting the media in India today. Questions of professionalism, of objectivity and balance in reportage and in commentary need to be addressed seriously, along with the question of commitment to larger national and social goals. I would also hazard to suggest that your organisation needs to monitor how our press balances, in its day to day reportage, the rights it enjoys through the freedom of the press, which is a great national institution and the duties that are implicit in the principles of fair play and objectivity, professional integrity and pursuit of excellence.  I have little doubt that greater professionalism can be ensured in media by allowing the winds of competition to blow freely across all sectors of the media. However, we need to ensure that there is a suitable framework for freedom of competition to be meaningful for all players in the media sector. A review of our media policy is therefore necessary, both in the context of changes consequent to the information revolution, and in light of the incremental process of opening up of the Indian economy. As you know, we have recently constituted a Group of Ministers to advise us on Media Policy, to advise the Government on how to create a fair and balanced policy framework. Our Government welcomes the possibility of discussing the policy towards investment in our media with representative bodies such as yours.  I believe the years ahead will be an exciting time to be in India, as we undertake the task of realizing the many commitments that we as a people have made to ourselves from the time of independence of our country. While it is true that over the years, we have not fully realized our vast latent developmental potential, I now feel confident in asserting that we have never before been better poised to take advantage of our potential as a people and as a great nation. At this historical juncture, when we seek to create a modern, progressive, inclusive and dynamic society, built on a rapidly growing economy, I venture to think that it is a good time to be in your profession. The media has a crucial role in tracking this process—and I dare say, guiding it as well, through your reportage and your criticisms. While politicians do not necessarily relish the latter, since we cannot do without the former, we look forward to the continued interaction between government and media that characterises a healthy democratic society! Let me therefore, conclude by wishing every one of you professional success and happiness at your chosen vocation. I also wish your organisation many more decades of service to the cause of women in the Indian media."  
