"I would like to express my deep appreciation to the Government as well as the friendly people of Uzbekistan for the very warm welcome and hospitality extended to me and my delegation. A visit to Uzbekistan is for me an experience that is both moving and replete with a sense of history. We have civilizational ties with Uzbekistan dating back to the dawn of history. Even up to the early years of the last century in the major cities of Uzbekistan - Samarkand, Bukhara, Khiva - there were communities of Indian traders who lived and worked in harmony with the Uzbek people. Tashkent is immortal in our memories because of its association with a great son of India - Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri. While paying my respects at Shastriji's memorial this afternoon, I felt a deep sense of gratitude towards the Government and people of Uzbekistan for their enduring tribute to our Late leader. India was among the first countries to establish diplomatic relations with Uzbekistan in 1992. Of course, even as early as April 1987 we had opened an Indian Consulate in Tashkent. Mr. President, we applaud the achievements of Uzbekistan in facing multifarious challenges. Your success is important not just for the people of this country, but for Central Asia as a whole. Your visit to India in April last year was an important milestone in consolidating our ties. Uzbekistan has registered 7% increase in its GDP last year. Your plans to attract foreign investment for rapid growth are impressive. India stands ready to be your partner for mutual benefit in sectors ranging from agriculture and science & technology to mining and hydrocarbons. Our trade and economic ties are growing but we must do more. The Jawaharlal Nehru India Uzbekistan Centre of Information Technology in Tashkent, inaugurated today, heralds a new beginning of cooperation in this field. Our common objective is to seek peace and prosperity for our peoples. Terrorism is a menace that must be fought collectively. Stability and prosperity of Central Asia is in the interests not just of India, but the world community as a whole. This goal cannot be reached without Uzbekistan, which must lead the way. I was deeply touched by the popularity of our dances, music and films in your country. We draw inspiration from our unique and enormously rich heritage. Here, I would like to quote from the great Uzbek philosopher and poet, Alisher Navoi, who said 565 years ago:-"May the Earth be an abode of delight, pleasure, songs and orchards, May peace ascend to the throne of the world,And let all the peoples gather for its feast"I thank you once again for your warm hospitality. I now invite you to join me and raise your glasses in a toast: - to the good health and happiness of President Islam Karimov and Madam Karimova- to the well-being and prosperity of the people of Uzbekistan,- to the ever-lasting friendship between India and Uzbekistan."
