My esteemed friend and colleague Shri Shivraj Patilji, Ministers of State,  Ladies and Gentlemen, I am pleased to be here today at the end of your very important deliberations. I am aware that you have spent the last two days discussing in detail and in depth some of the most important challenges facing our polity. I hope you will return to your posts with renewed vigor and commitment to provide leadership in ensuring social peace and stability, so that we can create the required political environment for sustained and equitable economic development and the empowerment of all our people. It goes with out saying that law and order is fundamental to the existence of a functioning democracy and a civilized society.  The rule of law is the bedrock of a modern economy.  As the instrument for maintaining the rule of law, an efficient, effective and accountable police administration is one of the most essential institutions of the state. Today, nations and Governments all over the world confront an extraordinary range of threats. New challenges are emerging each day. Momentous changes are taking place all around us that have had a profound influence on the security environment and security situation. We too face many daunting challenges at home but we can derive strength from the fact that our democracy has endured many challenges before and the Nation has come out stronger and more resilient from each trial. Your colleagues in the police and security forces have played an important role in enabling our country to endure and surmount these challenges. On behalf of our people, I thank you for the gallant services you have performed.  Our ability to fashion a multi-lingual, multi-ethnic, multi-religious society is the envy of many nations. Our ethos has been to accept what is good and great in our past and allow this to permeate our present. We can confidently face the many challenges that could well overwhelm lesser nations. I am confident that this intrinsic genius of the people of our great country will continue to help us respond effectively to any security challenge. Today when we speak of security threats we must understand that these embrace a multitude of dangers, and not necessarily only the threats of external aggression or internal turbulence. There are several subversive forces at work, including in the economic realm. Economic globalization and technological development have altered the nature of crime, giving rise to new forms of white collar crime. These co-exist with the most primitive forms of extortion, and trafficking in arms, drugs, narcotics and women.  Migration of people with large movements across national borders - and even within countries - has become an explosive issue in many parts of the world. Antagonisms arising from a resurgence of religious bigotry and the spectre of religious fundamentalism and communalism, threaten secular values and liberal democracy.  Urban crime and rape are on the rise, fuelled by increasing disparities between the haves and have-nots, made sharper by its greater visibility thanks to new media forms and the co-habitation of the rich and the poor in common neighbourhoods of affluence and poverty. I do not want to discuss here what social, economic and political factors may be contributing to these various trends.  Suffice it to say that the best safeguard against such threats is the confidence of all sections of our society in the supremacy of the rule of law, in the system's fair play and justice and in our commitment to the fundamental values of our magnificent Constitution.  But, above all, the people must have confidence in your professionalism, honesty, integrity and efficiency. The police and security forces must be viewed as friends of the people, of ordinary, honest citizens, even as they instill fear in law breakers and enemies of the State.  Our commitment to secularism and to the equality of all, irrespective of religion, region, caste or community is an important guarantor of social peace and harmony. Fundamentalism feeds on sectarianism, politics of exclusion and insecurity of the weak. We must take care to ensure that the dominant silent majority has faith in the Government's ability and willingness to be fair-minded and just, even as we are resolute and determined to uphold the rule of law. It is on this basis that we can create the social and political environment necessary for sustained economic and social development. Investment, as I have often said, is an act of faith. That faith in our future is shaped by the social and political environment that prevails. You have, therefore, a role to play in the economic resurgence of our country by ensuring the rule of law and preserving law and order. Today I would like to focus specially on the grave threat posed by terrorism which now poses a threat to all civilized societies. It poses a particular challenge to open, democratic societies where the freedoms granted by democracy are used to subvert those very democratic institutions. Terrorism is a savage asymmetric form of warfare, where 'fair is foul' and 'foul is fair'. A new warrior class, mainly of non-State armed groups, often inspired form abroad has emerged, spreading across nations and even across the globe, able to strike at will and at high value political, economic and symbolic targets as also to deal strategic blows. As experts, you would know that the new terrorist outfits effectively combine many precepts and practices of older groups with novel attributes, much of it made possible by state-of-the-art technology and global mobility facilitated by the processes of globalization. New terrorists thus represent an altogether different category of terrorism. The questions I would like you to consider are whether you are professionally, intellectually and technologically adequately equipped to deal with this new challenge to our internal security ?    Are we aware of the full extent and scope of the collaboration between hostile states and non-state actors and subversive elements within our borders? What links exist between ideologically motivated militants, criminal armed groups, insurgents and organized criminal syndicates?  From the daily reports that I read, I am aware of the large amount of territory they cover, the access they have to secure bases for training, planning and launching of operations. I am well aware that the internal security challenges we face are highly daunting. We face a multitude of threats rather than a single over-arching and unambiguous danger. Nevertheless, I do feel that despite the plethora of militant movements in various parts of the country it should be possible for the Police, the Intelligence and Security Forces, given their existing level of competence, to deal effectively with these threats.  However, where there is a need for new technologies, for greater professionalism in the organization of our security forces, in the recruitment and training of policemen and para-military forces, and more competent and sophisticated means of criminal investigation, we must not hesitate to make the required investments. The investment we need to make can not be quantified in purely financial terms. There is a need to invest in the creation of a moral and competent leadership, a professional work force and a humane law and order machinery that is sensitive to the needs and concerns of every citizen, howsoever meek and low he or she may be. I am aware that a democratic, constitutional framework imposes certain constraints on you. But that, to me, is a source of strength for our country and our nationhood. If we can channelise the energies generated by our pluralistic, multi-ethnic and multi-cultural polity, we can overcome most of the security challenges we face today.  I recognise the specially challenging nature of the security situation in certain regions of  the country, Jammu and Kashmir, the North East, the States where Leftwing extremism is active and places where communal conflict has become entrenched. The North East stands at the crossroads of civilization and there are myriad forces at work here. The North East is more a 'salad bowl' rather than a 'melting pot', and this makes it difficult for the Security Forces and bureaucracy to tackle problems as they arise. In some parts of the North East, there is also an identity crisis posed by ethnic and societal fault lines.  Our Intelligence operatives in all these areas must acquire a better understanding of the social, political and ethnic issues prevalent in these regions. They also  need a sense of history, apart from keeping their ears close to the ground. I do not wish to dilate on this to day, but I do not think that there is a more appropriate forum than this meeting of Heads of Intelligence, Police and Security Forces to speak in the manner I have just done.  Please do not take my plain speaking amiss. I hope you will take it in the spirit of self-criticism.  The spectre of Left wing extremism continues to haunt us, albeit in new forms. Charu Mazumdar had once talked of a 'Spring thunder over India'. In the initial days of the movement, many of the best and the brightest had been attracted towards the movement. Almost 40 years later, the Naxalite movement has lost much of its intellectual élan, but it has gained in strength and has now spread to over 150 districts all over the country. There are still many members of the intelligentsia associating with the movement who are backed by a sizeable lumpen element. Often these are just unemployed and misguided elements, but now they have the benefit of better training and quality weapons.  In many areas this phenomenon is a function of underdevelopment. It is not a coincidence that it is the tribal areas that are the main battleground of left wing extremism to day. Large swathes of tribal territory from Andhra Pradesh in the South to the borders of UP and Bengal in the North and East have become the hunting ground of left wing extremists.  Our laws are inadequate to accommodate the needs and aspirations of these tribals. Feudal elements exploit the tribals. Dealing with left wing extremists is hence not merely a law and order issue, though containing violence is a major aspect. This is more so now that Maoists in Nepal have become a major force and are trying to link up with left wing extremist groups across the border. I hope that in this Conference you have discussed how best to meet this challenge, which has the potential to pose an even graver threat than the militancy in some parts of our country.   Let me assure you that I am aware of the enormous challenges your workforce face and of their commitment to the unity and integrity of our nation. I am also aware that we have a competent leadership in our security establishment to guide them. However, I must draw your attention to the prevalent negative public perception in the country with respect to the competence and commitment of our police and security forces.  I urge you to address this issue head on.  We must pay attention to the question of morale of our police and security forces. We must pay attention to their honesty and discipline.  We must take a hard look at the sources of their corruption and causes for their politicization.  I urge our political parties also to focus on this issue. You are aware of the report that the former Union home secretary Shri N N Vohra produced on the so-called "nexus" between politicians, criminals and the police. This poses an insidious threat to our society, economy and polity. It is in your hands, as leaders of the police service, to resist such politicization and criminalisation and restore to our police force the prestige and élan they once enjoyed. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a matter of deep concern that the shine has gone off the prestige and glory associated with the police service in our country. In a city like Mumbai there was a time a policeman stood tall with pride, and was glorified in Hindi cinema. For some time now the police are portrayed perhaps wrongly as corrupt, inept, lawless and in cahoots with criminals and undesirable elements in society.  Consequently, there is either a demoralization that has set in, or there is an increase in indiscipline born of the criminalisation, politicization and corruption of the force. We must move quickly to stem this rot.  A police man must be a friend of the people, a guarantor of their security and safety and a source of comfort and confidence. A police station must be a source of protection to honest citizens and not one of harassment.  If our systems of recruitment have come in the way of selecting the correct persons then we must address this issue head on. If the inadequacy of compensation, the lack of housing and economic security is responsible then this too must be addressed. If it is the politicization of the force and its links with criminal elements that is at fault then that too must be addressed. Our government is willing to address these problems.  It is for you to introspect, stand up and re-discover the pride and glory in your service. I am also concerned about the welfare of the families of those policemen who are killed in action while doing their job of maintaining law and order. Mr.Ajit Doval mentioned that 27,000 policemen have lost their lives serving the nation. The condition of their families, I am told, is often pitiable. We need to pay greater attention to the welfare of these families as this is an essential element in maintaining the morale of the force and also ensuring that the best and brightest come forward to be policemen and policewomen.  Ladies and Gentlemen, As you return to your posts, I would like you to ponder over some questions. Are you satisfied with the levels of professional competence within your organization?  Do you feel that you are better equipped to-day than previously to deal with the increasing challenges you face?  Do you consider your capacity to anticipate future events adequate. If not, what measures are you contemplating to improve your capabilities?  Are you trained and equipped to deal simultaneously with multiple threats? Have you also introspected as to whether your knowledge and skill levels are sufficient, and the training and methodology suited to the changing security scenario?  Have the special grants for modernization of the police force helped and are you equipped to handle situations where even organized crime and criminal syndicates are exploiting technology to secure their objective ? I am sure that a lot of work is being done in these areas. I am also optimistic that the results of your efforts would be positive. Yet, time is of essence. The threat of cascading violence and catastrophic terrorism and the danger from biological and chemical pathogens is indeed real. Hence, the need to speed up the process has become imperative. What I would like to recommend to you leaders of the Police, is to initiate a Revolution in Police Sciences and Intelligence on the lines of the Revolution in Military affairs, so that you can be more confident of taking on these complex threats. I am well aware that the police have a thankless and unenviable task to perform. They are greatly over-worked and  have a very difficult job to do. Every policemen, big or small, is compelled to make sacrifices in so far as his personal and family welfare is concerned. The public at large are aware of all this, and yet the image of the police has not improved.   Do you think that prescribing certain bench-marks for performance, alongside measures for more compassionate policing, would help?  I would suggest that you consult civil society groups and professional bodies in this matter, and perhaps even accept some degree of public audit where police- public inter-face exists. This might help make the image of the police more positive. A police force seen to be more relevant to the needs of the society and sensitive to its demands, alone can project a better image of itself.  Many Committees and Commissions, beginning from the first Police Commission of 1860 to the Ribeiro Committee of 1998 have addressed these issues and suggested a number of changes to improve police administration in the country.  Even a Model Police Act has been suggested to replace the 1961 Police Act. In order to build on this work and take tangible steps, our Government will be constituting a Committee consisting of representatives of Government of India, of States and outside experts to examine the recommendations of all past Commissions and Committees and come up with a set of credible, implementable suggestions for improving police administration in the country. Friends, I can assure you our Government's fullest support in dealing with the challenges I have outlined today and I do so with the fullest support of my honourable Home Minister. In return, I would like to seek from you, your firm commitment to the values of professionalism and honesty that must define the culture of our police and security forces.    Thank you.
