"When I was a child my parents introduced me to Gandhiji's autobiography the story of my experiments with truth. At that time I never imagined that I would have a unique opportunity to visit the place where some of these experiments took place. And I am very grateful to his Excellency the President of the Republic of South Africa, President Mbeki for providing me with this unique opportunity to visit this great country with which we share a common heritage. Both our countries derive immense inspiration from the work, life and the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi. India's freedom struggle is rooted in the value system which Mahatma Gandhi experimented in this great country and therefore for me it is a rare spiritual moment to be in this sacred site of South Africa which transformed Gandhiji into a Mahatma - a great redeemer for all times to come. I am deeply moved by this visit to Phoenix Settlement, which Mahatma Gandhi set up in the year 1904 to put into practice the values which he followed and preached for the rest of his life - self-help, dignity of labour, community living. Sarvodaya - the humble house in which the Mahatma lived still seems to be pervaded with the compassion and serenity, which characterized him. I could almost feel his presence here today. I know that the Settlement was almost razed to the ground in 1985. But it is a testimony to the triumph of the Gandhian spirit that it has been rebuilt and is a part of the broader community of Inanda today. If the Mahatma were to be alive, he would have been delighted about this rejuvenation. I am happy that the Indian Government participated in small measure in the restoration and rehabilitation of the core of the Settlement from the very beginning, when work started in the year 1990. We will always be glad and will feel it a great privilege to do more to help the Settlement once again become a model of community living. I think that this would be a true tribute to the memory of Mahatma Gandhi. This morning I also visited the Resistance Monument at Umbilo Park, which commemorates the 1946 Passive Resistance campaign against racism. I could not but admire the courage of the brave men and women who gathered at the 'whites only' park in 1946 and defied injustice and violence with just and non-violent means - thereby practicing the Gandhian values to the very letter and spirit. They proved that Satyagraha remained the golden path to follow even 40 years after its birth. What began at Phoenix fructified at Umbilo Road. By raising a memorial monument at the very spot where this happened, the South African government has helped to preserve and promote a timeless ideal. It is as relevant today as it was when it all started a100 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen this settlement is a symbol of abiding unity of the people of India and the people of South Africa. We cherish the memories of Mahatma with which we thank the people of South Africa, of this blessed land which transformed Gandhiji into the Mahatma. The best tribute that we can pay to Mahatma Gandhi is to remain steadfast in our commitment to build a world order free from the fear of war, want and exploitation. In this common endeavour to built such a new world order the Government and people of South Africa and we are partners. I commit our Government and our people to strengthen in every possible way the bonds of unity, and the bonds of friendship between the people of India and the people of South Africa, indeed the entire continent of Africa that is our civilizational heritage bequeathed to us by no less a person than Mahatma Gandhi - it's a privilege, its an obligation and I thank President Mbeki once again for giving me this rare opportunity to experience this spiritual bliss in the presence on this and sacred land of Phoenix Settlement."
