This has been a most satisfying visit for me particularly because it coincides with Gandhiji's 137th birthday today. I take this opportunity to thank President Mbeki and the people of South Africa for their traditional warmth and affection for India. I would also like to express my sincere appreciation to the President and to the South African Government for the warm welcome and hospitality extended to me and my delegation. President Mbeki and I have had very fruitful discussions this morning, continuing upon our meetings in Brasilia and in Havana last month. We are satisfied with the steady growth in our multi-dimensional relationship and this is reflected in the joint declaration that we have just now signed. India and South Africa enjoy excellent bilateral relations and I mentioned to His Excellency the President that developing strategic partnership with South Africa is something that unites all shades of political opinion in our country. We are therefore keen to work with South Africa to enhance and give more meaning and content to our strategic partnership. We have decided to maintain active contacts at all levels to deepen our mutual understanding on bilateral and international issues. Both our countries face the common problem of ensuring that the fruits of development reach those who need them most. President Mbeki and I discussed how we can exchange experiences and best practices to achieve this objective. India's strengths are in the service industry and human resources development and we have offered to be a partner in the South Africa's Accelerated and Shared Growth Initiative. President Mbeki and I have tasked our officials to draw up a concrete programme of cooperation to implement this offer. South Africa is India's biggest trading partner in Africa. Many of our Indian companies are present here and are expanding their business presence. The rapid growth of the Indian economy offers significant opportunities to both sides. President Mbeki and I have decided to qualitatively enhance our commercial and economic relationship. The India-South Africa CEOs' Forum, which is holding its 3rd meeting today, will provide a further momentum to our economic cooperation in the jointly identified priority sectors. India and South Africa have active cooperation in the field of science & technology. We welcome the recent signing of a new Programme of Cooperation between our two countries in this vital sector. Our two countries share a common vision of a cooperative, rule-based multi-polar world order. During our discussions, we decided to strengthen our cooperation in the reform of the UN system and, in particular, reform and expansion of the UN Security Council, without which the overall reform of the United Nations will remain incomplete. I have invited President Mbeki to visit India at his earliest convenience. I look forward to continuing to work with His Excellency the President to enhance our strategic partnership to give it more meaning, content and thrust.
