speech in hindiI am delighted to be here in Mumbai to lay the foundation stone and flag off the work on the Western dedicated Freight Corridor project. Mumbai has been a pioneer in the industrialization and modernization of our nation. It was from the neighbourhood of Mumbai that Railways began their long journey of connecting the distant corners of our vast sub-continent. In the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Mumbai certainly has one of the world's grandest railway stations. Today, once again, Mumbai becomes the starting point of a long corridor of trade and commerce. The Western Dedicated Railway Freight Corridor, work on which will commence from today, is going to help maintain the position of Mumbai as the premier commercial and business centre of the nation. The Dedicated Freight Corridor is the biggest development programme being undertaken by the Indian Railways since independence. Costing Rs.. 22,000 crores, it is the single largest infrastructure project in the country. When completed, not only will it take Indian Railways to new heights but will also change fortunes of the regions it connects. I compliment my friend and distinguished colleague, Shri Lalu Prasadji, for his leadership in making this futuristic venture possible. Laluji has a special place in our hearts. I am deeply impressed by the turnaround he has achieved in the Indian Railways. When the UPA government came into office, the railways were in deep financial trouble. They had suffered from years of neglect. There seemed to be no light at the end of the tunnel. Laluji showed a new light to this organization. He showed his capabilities as a visionary leader, an institution builder and a reformer. Under his leadership, Indian Railways has staged a dramatic turnaround with the same employees and assets. I was very happy to learn that recently, he was at IIM, Ahmedabad explaining his strategy to management students. I daresay that the turnaround story of the Indian Railways under Laluji's leadership would make a good case study for the best business schools across the world. It demonstrates that with dynamic leadership, professional management, a committed workforce and a result oriented focus, government organizations can be as good as any. I congratulate the workers, the employees, the officers and all those associated with Indian Railways for this impressive performance. Above all, I congratulate my friend Lalu Prasadji. In the last two years, Railways have been able to improve customer services without raising passenger fares. In fact, facilities for poorer sections of society have improved greatly. Railways have reformed without losing sight of their social obligation. This is what we call "inclusive growth". This is the phi8losophy of the United Progressive Alliance. This is what all other organizations must emulate. It is, however, necessary that this momentum is maintained. Our Government will give India a world class railway system. When Lalu Prasadji came to meet me the first time after taking charge as Railway Minister I had only one word of advice for him. Making Indian Railways world class, I told Laluji. I am truly happy that he is taking Indian Railways in that direction. This Dedicated Freight Corridor is a fulfillment of that promise. It will give our country a world class system for goods transportation. I want Laluji to also provide similar world class systems for passengers in the years to come. I am confident that he will be able to deliver. The Western Corridor will link the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust and other ports located in Gujarat and western India to industries located across the wide expanse of northern and central India. It will, through the Northern Corridor, link these to Eastern India. This line will boost both industrial development and trade in agricultural commodities across the region. I sincerely believe that the Dedicated Freight Corridor will boost the economic development of some of our most backward regions. It will not only bridge the infrastructure gap in our country, it will also promote industrial development and create new employment opportunities. By reducing cost of transportation, it will make Indian goods more competitive in global markets. Having begun this work, I request Indian Railways to start considering additional freight corridors to the link the Southern region as well. This will then truly link the entire nation in a grid. The modernization of our railways and creation of additional infrastructure are a national priority. This was the commitment of the UPA government. It is now commonly agreed that if India is to continue on its high growth trajectory, it must invest in infrastructure. The dynamism being shown by our industry and services must not be choked because of poor infrastructure. And the UPA government is committed to improving infrastructure. We are building world class airports; metros are being added in Mumbai and Bangalore; new ports are being built along the coast; and the improvement in railways is there for you to see. In a few years, the landscape of Indian infrastructure will change beyond recognition. I have been a frequent visitor to Mumbai in the last two years. I have often said that it is the sincere commitment of the UPA government to make the great city of Mumbai a most modern metropolis. There is enormous creative energy in Mumbai. In the recent past, when struck by natural calamities and terrorists attacks, Mumbai has shown its warm, caring, resilient and courageous side. It is this combination of enterprise and creativity on the one hand, and a sense of camaraderie and fellow-feeling on the other, that makes Mumbai a truly great city. I urge the State Government to speed up the modernization of Mumbai. To reform its administration. Mumbai deserves the best urban infrastructure India can afford. Working with the state government, we have been taking a number of steps in this direction. We will provide the entire amount of Rs. 1,200 crore for the Brihanmumbai Storm Water Drainage Project. Work on the Mumbai Metro has already begun and we will soon be finalizing the grant support needed from Delhi. The Mumbai Urban Transport Project involving the Railways is ;going steadily ahead. I have flagged off two rakes of suburban trains today which will provide 12 additional services on Western and central Railway. Through the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, we will all possible support to the Worli Bandra Sea link and the Trans-harbour link. Investments are also being made on sewage disposal and drainage of the Mithi river. Taken together, this is investment on a massive scale in the infrastructure of Mumbai. I am confident that as these projects get completed in the next few years, Mumbai will be able to have much better transport and communication links and better sewerage facilities. Better infrastructure will give a fresh thrust to Mumbai's growth - creating jobs and incomes for its people. I have also asked the central and state governments to sit together and evolve a programme for welfare and rehabilitation of slum dwellers so that public land can be freed up for public development projects that will benefit all. Our effort will be to ensure that we have a Mumbai which is prosperous; a Mumbai which continues to be a creator of jobs and wealth; a Mumbai which is a thriving commercial and industrial centre; a Mumbai which is a global city; a Mumbai which is the pride of India and Maharashtra. I want to take this opportunity to greet the people of Mumbai during this festival season. I wish Mumbai and all its residents a bright future. I congratulate everyone who is associated with this historic project.
