Ladies and Gentlemen, 	I am truly delighted to be here today amongst you.  The Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan is one of our most cherished national institutions.  I bow my head and pay tribute to the memory of Kulapati Dr. K.M. Munshi.  He was a towering visionary belonging to a historic generation of great leaders.  Our nation was truly blessed in the 20th century, being home to some of the greatest men and women of our era. 	They were great not because they were powerful.  They were great not because they headed governments, or led armies.  They were great not because they were wealthy.  They were great because they were men and women of great compassion, intellect and abiding commitment to humanity.	Inspired by the tallest of them all, Mahatma Gandhi, a generation of Indians created and nurtured great institutions.  The Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan is one such.  The Bhavan started as an institution dedicated to the preservation and promotion of Sanskrit - the most ancient of languages, the most musical of languages, the most scientific of languages.  However, under Munshiji's inspiring leadership the Bhavan branched out into diverse activities.  	From the days of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, successive governments have greatly valued the Bhavan's contribution to human development in our country.  The Bhavan has also inspired people abroad to come forward and contribute their might to the preservation and promotion of Indian culture and learning. 	The Bhavan is a unique institution because its feet are firmly placed on the solid foundation of our rich heritage and culture, while its head has soared into the skies to embrace all that is new and modern.  The Bhavan has spread its wings and flown into new areas of education.  It is a valued institution across the country.  It is, therefore, only natural that the Bhavan has branched off into the teaching of information technology.	I compliment you on your unceasing and untiring efforts to remain relevant to the needs of our society.  I salute the patriotism and the humanism of all those who have helped build the Bhavan and continue to help in its manifold activities.  I wish you well in your noble endeavours.  I assure you that I will always be here to support and encourage the good work of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan. 	May your path continue to be blessed.
