 "At the outset, I would like to greet the youth leaders from all over the country who have assembled to stand up to one of the biggest public health challenges of our times - HIV and AIDS. By being here today, you have emphatically conveyed your preparedness to take up the responsibility of fighting the menace now and in future. The manner of your coming together confirms that India's democratic institutions provide the best means to fight the worst of the threats. I do hope that the young women and men here would prove energetic and vibrant partners in stopping the transmission of HIV and ameliorating the situation of those living with HIV/AIDS. Let me also congratulate the convener and Members of Parliamentary Forum on HIV/AIDS for their initiative to hold the Special Session of National Students and Youth Parliament on HIV/AIDS. The Parliamentary Forum symbolizes the nationwide concern and seriousness that Parliamentarians, cutting across party lines, attach to the fight against HIV/AIDS. This Forum is unique not only by virtue of its composition, but also in providing leadership and political commitment in this critical area of national endeavour. From one reported HIV case in 1986, the number of HIV positive people in India has already crossed the horrendous fifty lakh mark. HIV/AIDS is no longer just a public health issue, but it has become one of the most serious socio-economic and developmental concerns. If not checked, it can hurt our ambitions in the areas of growth and development very severely. Though HIV/AIDS can affect everyone, it is the poor, the marginalized populations, the women, and the young people who are most vulnerable. We have no choice but to act, and act with firmness, with urgency and with utmost seriousness. My Government is committed to substantially strengthen the national AIDS control efforts. This forms a part of the Common Minimum Programme. Different ministries have joined hands in evolving a National Action Plan for spreading awareness and improving access to services related to HIV/AIDS. However, these efforts will require more and more partners and more and more active participants from all sections of the society to create a massive and truly people's movement. In this context, it is the young people who are our greatest hope. In countries where the spread of HIV is declining - it is primarily because young people are learning to protect themselves from getting infected with HIV. This Special Session of National Students and Youth Parliament is, therefore, of enormous significance as it places the task of combating HIV/AIDS right in the hands of our young people. Every day, nearly 6,000 young people in the world get infected with HIV simply because they lack information, knowledge and necessary skills to protect themselves. According to an estimate by the National AIDS Control Organisation, 35% of reported AIDS cases in our own country are in the 15-24 age group. Studies have shown that a large number of young people have limited idea on how HIV/AIDS is transmitted and how to protect themselves from HIV infection. While young women are biologically more vulnerable, they have lesser opportunities to access information on HIV and have still less power to control their sexual lives. Early marriage poses special risks to young people, particularly to women. In the absence of a preventive vaccine against HIV infection, the social vaccine of 'Education and Awareness' is the only effective method of prevention. We will have to put an end to the three 'Ss': Silence, Stigma and Shame, associated with HIV/AIDS and by making available to the youth what they need most - information, knowledge and services. Young people can protect themselves only if they have proper and accurate information about HIV/AIDS. For instance, everyday, nearly 6,000 young people in the world get infected with HIV simply because they lack information, knowledge and skills to protect themselves. As I already mentioned, according to an estimate by the National AIDS Control Organization, 35% of reported AIDS cases in the country are in the 15-24 age group. Therefore, reaching youngsters before they become sexually active, so that they can lay the foundations of a responsible lifestyle for the future. Adults, including parents, teachers, counselors, social workers and religious leaders have to work together with the young people to help them gain knowledge and skills and change their attitudes. People infected with HIV need society's support and protection. They are not a threat to society. They have a right to live a life with dignity, and to pursue their occupations without losing their earning power. It is only when we succeed in removing the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS, and the misconceptions surrounding it, that we can reverse the trend of rising infections in this country. It is my sincere hope that each one of you at this important Parliament will become a beacon of hope for thousands of others and act as role model. The format of your discussions gives you a chance to understand the functioning of the other Parliament not far from here, where myself and fellow MPs transact legislative business round the year. In your Parliament though the treasury and the opposition may not find any difference over the policy towards HIV/AIDS; but this I hope does not take away from the excitement for working to meet this challenge. I am happy to note that the Parliamentary Forum has worked out plans to take the process forward to state and district levels. We are also happy that we are not alone in this battle against HIV/AIDS. We have the active support of several international organizations and bilateral funding agencies. For instance, there was great appreciation at the last AIDS Summit in Bangkok, at which the Congress President, Smt Sonia Gandhiji, had represented India. I am extremely grateful to Soniaji for her commitment to this cause. Before I conclude, I would like to give three messages to every young girl and boy sitting before me in this special session on HIV/AIDS. o        First, Lead by example and lead from the front. Your behaviour needs to change first, before you seek behaviour changes in others.  o        Second, inform your friends and empower them, so that they can make safe choices and correct behaviour.  o        Third, promise to uphold the dignity of every Indian living with HIV in our country by love, affection, and social support.  I have no doubt that the young but determined faces that I see in this hall will change the future course of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in India. We shall overcome, we shall prevail. I extend by best wishes for the success of this event."  
