"I am delighted to be here with members of the Indian community in the United Kingdom, which as the High Commissioner has just now said, is among the most well-established communities of the worldwide Indian Diaspora.The Indian community, of whatever faith, in the UK is truly exceptional in terms of educational attainments, economic profile, social integration and cultural vibrancy. They are an enormous asset to the country of adoption and a matter of pride for all of us back home in India. The integration achieved by the community of Indian origin is a shining example of successful adaptation and contribution of any community in the United Kingdom. There is no room for the clash of civilizations in India and the Indian community is a vibrant example of that, with Indians of all faiths and persuasions doing equally well. Our plural society has ingrained in every Indian the virtues of tolerance and co-existence among cultures, languages, religions, political and social views, and varied ways of life. I believe that this background has something to do with the astonishing ability to adapt, which has characterized Indians wherever and whichever part of the world they have gone. It is particularly true of Indian achievement in a free society like the United Kingdom which cherishes individual worth, and which has extended political, economic and social freedoms to successive waves of immigrants. When applauding the remarkable success of our countrymen in this land, I would also like to pay tribute to the openness of British society, which has created an enabling climate for our people to do well and to flourish. India is on the move today. The Indian economy has recorded high rates of growth on a sustained basis since our process of economic reforms began some fifteen years ago. India is among the most attractive destinations globally for doing business. This is indicative of the extent to which the Indian economy has successfully globalized. Several Indian companies have expanded their global presence in various sectors across the world, including in this country. India is proud of its remarkable achievements in sustaining 8% growth of its economy for the fourth year in a row. The buoyancy and vitality of our economy is a measure of the creativity of our people which has been unleashed after full-scale economic reforms were undertaken in the early 90s. While doing so we are engaged in a massive task of fulfilling the basic needs of our teeming millions. In my interactions with Prime Minister Blair, the British political leadership and with the captains of business and industry, I see recognition of the new India that is emerging that is on the horizon. I do believe that India and the United Kingdom can join hands, as we are both well equipped to take advantage of the knowledge economy, which will shape the 21st century. We have close understanding of each other's political institutions and traditions and a shared commitment to democracy and fundamental human rights. We would welcome your continuing active engagement with the political process in the United Kingdom. The transformation under way in India, ladies and gentlemen, is, in my opinion, one of the most far-reaching revolutions of this century. More than a billion people are seeking their salvation within the framework of an open society and an open economy committed to rule of law and fundamental human rights. I invite you all to participate in this adventure of creativity and enterprise any way you can. In concluding, I wish to recall to you Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru's advice that Indians living abroad should be loyal to the country of their adoption while keeping a place in their hearts for India. I am happy to note that all of you have lived up to that injunction. I thank you."
