Ladies and Gentlemen,	I am very happy to be here in Gods Own Country known as Kerala, on this historic day. I convey my best wishes to the people of Kerala, not just those who live here, but to every Keralite living across the world. I don't think any other group of Indians is as globalised as the people of Kerala. There used to be an old joke that when Neil Armstrong landed on the moon, he was greeted by a Malayali with a cup of "chay" ! 	I am, therefore, particularly delighted that my first engagement this morning is associated with improving Kerala's global connectivity. The Thiruvananthapuram Airport is one of the first non-metro international airports in the country. This itself testifies to Kerala's global links. But you all know that these links go back deep into history. The Kerala coast received sea-farers, explorers and traders for centuries. They came from the Arab world, Europe, China and other distant lands. Kerala is the symbol of India's openness. It has also been a proud symbol of our composite culture.	The outward orientation of the people of Kerala has had an enormously positive impact on the quality of life across our country. The Malayali people have contributed a great deal to the intellectual, economic, social  and cultural development of India. There is something more that Kerala's globalisation has done for us. The inward remittances coming from your bread winners abroad have helped stabilize our balance of payments. The skills and capabilities of the people of Kerala have kept our economy buoyant and on an even keel. 	I am delighted that apart from the outward migration of people, today, Kerala's improved connectivity is encouraging tourism into the state. "God's Own Country" has become a magnet for seekers of peace, relaxation and rejuvenation. I compliment the Government of Kerala and the state's very enterprising people for the manner in which they have developed Kerala's tourism economy.	Given this importance of connectivity, we have decided to improve Kerala's airport infrastructure. Apart from building this new terminal, our Government will also assist the state in its plans for developing better connectivity. I  am also happy to learn that Air India is developing a maintenance base here at an estimated cost of Rs 50 crores. This will generate new employment opportunities for the people of the state.Ladies and Gentlemen,	The time has come for Kerala to take bold steps forward and emerge as one of our leading states in every facet of socio-economic development. In the past 50 years Kerala has been a highly impressive symbol of human development, investing in education and health care. Kerala has many lessons for the rest of the country and many parts of the world in this regard. However, Kerala has lagged behind its neighbours in the development of modern industries and the knowledge economy. I am sure Kerala can catch up and that it will catch up. I assure the people of Kerala the unstinted support of the UPA Government in New Delhi, in their future endeavours.	Our Government has taken many initiatives in the infrastructure sector that Kerala can take advantage of. I hope both Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi will take advantage of the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission to upgrade the urban infrastructure facilities in both cities. I also hope that mass rapid transit facilities can be developed in Kochi. I would also like Kerala to benefit from Bharat Nirman and ensure complete rural electrification and road connectivity. 	I am aware of the anxieties of the plantation sector in this state. I assure you that our Government will not do anything that will hurt the interests of the people of this magnificent state.I urge you, especially those who have invested in the plantation sector, to diversify your investments and to make better use of new market opportunities in India and abroad. At the same time, you must be prepared to deal with competition from some of our friendly countries with whom we have long historical and fraternal relations, like Sri Lanka and Vietnam. We need to make effective use of modern science and technology to improve the productivity and yield of the plantation sector in Kerala. 	Our Government is committed to improving the agricultural and the plantation economies of Kerala, especially in areas like Waynad and Allappuzha. We are committed to the welfare of the farmers and agricultural workers. The National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme introduced by our Government is already being implemented in two districts of Kerala. It is because of our commitment to the welfare of the fisher folk and to the development of the fisheries sector that our Government has set up the National Fisheries Development Board. This will give a new boost to fisheries development in the whole southern region. Our Government has also taken many steps to improve our country's port infrastructure. I am happy that Kerala has benefited from this. The Azhikkal Port has been included in the National Maritime Development programme. Our government will also render all possible assistance for the development of Vizhinjam harbour. Ladies and Gentlemen,	I compliment the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Minister Praful Patel and the Airports Authority of India for the excellent work they have been doing in developing the civil aviation sector in the country. The activity we see all around in the sector - be it the construction and modernization of airports or the establishment of new airlines - all point to the dynamism that has been unleashed in this vital sector. If India's growth has not to be constrained, if we need more trade and travel, if we need our people to go to far out lands and if we want visitors from all corners of the world to come here, we need first rate infrastructure. I am extremely pleased that the civil aviation sector is taking us forward towards the goal of better connectivity. I am sure that my colleague Shri Praful Patel and the officers and staff of the Airports Authority of India will continue to work in the same manner in future. I have every reason to believe that Indian Airlines and Air India will also prove equal to the task ahead.Ladies and Gentlemen,The past fifty years have been years of building the foundation of a new Kerala. I am confident that Kerala today has the potential to take a great leap forward. You need the vision and the spirit of creativity and adventure to make that leap. Your State, your people, have the potential and the ability. I hope the political, business, social and intellectual leadership in Kerala will come together and help the State make that giant leap forward. 	As I said at the very beginning, Kerala has always been a proud symbol of India's  composite culture. You must preserve and strengthen this aspect of your great cultural traditions.  Every son and daughter of this soil takes great pride in your common linguistic and cultural heritage, irrespective of religion and caste. You must strengthen these bonds and not fall prey to divisive and sectarian ideologies that can only harm Kerala and our great nation. I have no doubt that Kerala has a bright future, lets walk together in confidence. May your path be blessed.  Jai Hind.
