I am delighted to be here today and lay the foundation stone of six major projects in Punjab. I am particularly pleased that these projects will change the face of not just Amritsar, but all areas in and around this great city.  	In many ways, Amritsar is my home.  In 1947, when India gained Independence, my family settled in Amritsar.  I still have fond memories of the Amritsar of those days.  Amritsar was a leading city, not only of India but also of the entire region. Amritsar was the foremost centre for India's trading and commercial relations with Afghanistan, Iran and Central Asia.  It was a magnificent and prosperous city where people came not only to pray at Harminder Sahib but also to make their fortunes.  The partition that occurred at the time of Independence caused a great deal of harm to the industry and trade of Amritsar.  Ancient trading routes got cut off and the border rose like a wall very close to the city. 	However, the hardworking, industrious people of Punjab have worked day and night and have changed the face of this divided State. The enterprising farmers of Punjab have made it the granary of India.  Cities such as Ludhiana, Jullandhar and Batala have become major industrial centres, making Punjab one of the leading industrial States of the country.  This has been the result of the efforts of the people of Punjab and the entire nation is proud of each one of you.  Ladies and gentlemen, However, it is not yet time to rest on one's laurels.  Punjab has some distance to go before it can say that it has achieved its developmental goals. There is no grinding poverty in the State but that is not enough.  The growth in agriculture which we saw in the 60s and 70s, has slowed down. In agriculture, other states are reaching Punjab's levels of productivity. And as far as industry is concerned, many other States have raced ahead Punjab.  Therefore, it is essential that every citizen of Punjab renews his pledge to work hard to make this State the leading State of the country once again.  In the last five years, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Congress Government in Punjab have worked tirelessly and with vigor to take the State further on the road to progress. The Punjab Government has made efforts to take agriculture in the state to new areas beyond paddy and wheat cultivation.  Many industrial parks and SEZs have been set up to catalyze industrial growth.  The conditions of cities in Punjab is improving rapidly and Amritsar and Ludhiana are competing with other cities to be counted among the best cities in the country.  An SEZ is being built in Amritsar, Textile Parks have been sanctioned for Ludhiana and Barnala and an Industrial Park for Batala.  In order to strengthen the hands of Shri Amarinder Singh and his Government, the Central Government has been providing assistance on a large scale.  New roads, new railway lines, new trains and new Airports are becoming operational all over the state.  The Indian Railways have agreed to build eight more Rail Overbridges at Bhatinda, Malot, Abohar, Mansa, Mor Mandi  and Lehragaga.  On completion of these over bridges, traffic conditions at these locations will certainly improve.  The railways have also decided to develop Amritsar, Jullandhar and Ludhiana railway stations into Stations with world class amenities.  A Logistics Park is being planned by the railways near the railway freight corridor at Ludhiana.  This Logistics Park will have a major transport centre and will enable Ludhiana to become the premier transport hub in Northern India. The Amritsar Airport is being modernized at a cost of Rs. 80 crores.  As far as roads are concerned, the Central Government is doing work on almost 1000 Kms of national highways in the State through the NHAI. Among the important roads that are being improved are the roads from Delhi to Chandigarh, Ludhiana to Chandigarh, Panipat to Jullandhar, Chandigarh to Kiratpur, Amritsar to Wagah, Amritsar to Pathankot, Amritsar to Jullandhar and Ludhiana & Moga to Talwandi.  It is my earnest hope and desire that Amritsar once again regains its lost glory.  I am confident that with the efforts of Shri Amarinder Singh and with the continued support of Government of India, Amritsar and whole of Punjab would certainly move in the direction of a glorious future.  	I have come here today to hand over the historic Gobindgarh Fort to the people of Punjab. This fort has been in the custody of the Government of India for decades. Gobindgarh Fort has a special place in our hearts. It is closely linked to Maharaja Ranjit Singh. It went into the possession of the British more than one hundred and fifty years ago and since then, has been out of reach for the people of Punjab. Today, its doors have been thrown open to everyone and it now belongs to all of you. I am extremely happy that I have the privilege of handing it over to you. I am sure this Fort will become a major centre of attraction in Amritsar.Ladies and Gentlemen:Since 1947, while saying one's morning prayers (ardas) every morning, every Sikh has been expressing the wish and fond hope that they should once again have easy access to those religious places which are now in Pakistan. Our government has been working hard and making every possible effort to make this a reality. In the last two and a half years, we have improved our relations with Pakistan. It has been our sincere endeavour to establish an atmosphere of peace between our two countries so that both countries can live in harmony. As a result of our efforts, many bus services have started between the two countries, the benefits of which have accrued to the people of Punjab as well. Bus services continue between Amritsar and Lahore and Amritsar  and Nankana Sahib. The movement of trucks between the two countries has also become simpler. This has greatly facilitated the easy movement of people and goods. Trade has increased and Amritsar has benefited. I am confident that if we continue on this path of peace, then Amritsar can once again regain its glory as a major centre of trade  and commerce. I believe that this is possible and we will make it happen. This is not a dream, it can be a reality. As I had said earlier, our government has been trying its best to ensure that we establish an atmosphere of peace with Pakistan and improve our relations. Last week, I had read about some new ideas and thoughts expressed from Pakistan. We welcome all ideas as they contribute to the ongoing thought process. If both sides approach issues with an open and friendly mind, and work together on resolving each of these, then it will be possible for us to resolve all pending issues through a dialogue process. The destinies of our two nations are interlinked. We need to put the past behind us. We need to think about our collective destiny, a destiny where both neighbours can work jointly towards a better future for their citizens. If our minds are determined and focused on this goal, I am confident that this destiny can be realized. I too have a vision regarding India and Pakistan. I earnestly hope that the relations between our two countries become so friendly and that we generate such an atmosphere of trust between each other that the two nations would be able to agree on a Treaty of Peace, Security and Friendship. I have spoken in the past about such a Treaty and I do so once again today from the same place. I am sure that we can overcome all hurdles in our path and realize such a Treaty.  This will become the instrument for realizing our collective destiny and the basis for enduring peace and prosperity in the region. Ladies and Gentlemen:If the border areas of Punjab have to develop rapidly, then such a Treaty is essential. I am aware that the residents of border areas of Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Ferozepur have been facing a lot of difficulties because they live close to the international boundary. There are difficulties in cultivating their fields and prospects for industrial growth appear poor. If we are able to increase our trade and commercial relations with Pakistan, these deprived areas  would certainly benefit a lot.However, without waiting for that day, we have started work on many other initiatives. Last month, civilian flights began from Pathankot airport, increasing the connectivity of that area. We have started an industrial park project in Batala which will improve the industrial infrastructure there. In order to facilitate cultivation of farms in border areas, we have increased the duration for which farmers can cross the border fence to work their fields. They will now be able to work much longer than before along the entire 500 km. length of the border. As far as Amritsar is concerned, we have sanctioned a Rs 180 crore project under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission for improving the basic facilities in the city. This is part of a larger City Development Plan which we will support. Amritsar will benefit greatly from this project and the living conditions in slums will improve substantially. Our government is 4-laning the road from Amritsar to Wagah through the NHAI. We will improve the facilities at Wagah and bring them to a level comparable to any international airport or port so that transit through Wagah becomes fast, convenient and easy. The foundation stones for some of these projects have been laid today. I believe that in a short while, the journey from Amritsar to Wagah and the transit of people and goods through Wagah will become so easy that this road will once again become a major highway for trade and commerce. In order to improve the basic facilities for people living in border areas, we have recently provided a package with an additional assistance of Rs 137 crores to the Punjab government. Under this, schools, dispensaries, hospitals, toilets and technical centres will be built in border districts. This will greatly benefit the residents of border districts. We have also agreed to build 500 kms. of rural roads in the border districts. Ladies and Gentlemen:The most enduring image of Punjab is that of hardworking, enterprising, prosperous farmers. They are the architects of our Green Revolution and have been instrumental in removing our foodgrain deficit. I am aware that in the last few years, farmers have faced some difficulty in carrying our agriculture. We have taken many measures to improve their conditions. We are providing loans to them at reduced interest rates. We are helping the state government to reduce the burden of debt on their shoulders. The farmers of Punjab have benefited from our efforts. The committee we have formed to look at ways of reducing the problem rural indebtedness is going to submit its report shortly and our government will soon be taking additional measures to reduce this burden. The farmers of Punjab also need new seeds and new technologies for improving their productivity. For this, we have provided Rs 100 crores to the Punjab Agricultural University so that they can modernize agriculture in Punjab and Punjab can play a leading role in the next Green Revolution that we need. I am confident that with the efforts of the government of Shri Amarinder Singh and with your hard work, the farmers of Punjab can look forward to a bright future with hope and confidence. Ladies and Gentlemen:Today, I have also laid the Foundation Stone of the Goindwal Power project. If Punjab has to grow rapidly, we need to pay greater attention to its industrialization. And electricity is crucial for this to happen. This is a major thermal power project in Punjab after a long gap. I compliment the Government of Punjab for this initiative. However, there is much still to be done. Punjab had taken a leading role in many industrial sectors such as bicycles, sports goods, hosiery, etc. It needs to once again show its dynamism and take the lead role in new areas such as electronics, automobiles, IT and biotechnology. The state government has worked quite hard in this direction and the results are slowly becoming visible. Mohali is certainly becoming a centre for some of these new sectors. I believe that Jalandhar, Mohali, Ludhiana and Amritsar will soon be counted once again among the leading industrial centers of the country. The Central Government will continue to help the State Government in taking Punjab forward in this direction. Ladies and Gentlemen:Today is day of pride for the people of Punjab. The historic fort of Gobindgarh has been restored to the citizens of this great state. Work has also been begun on many new development initiatives. If we continue on the path we have begun and we strengthen the hands of Shri Amarainder Singh, I am confident that in a few years Punjab will once again become the premier state of the country in all respects. Jai Hind.
