"My best wishes to you all for the new year. I am delighted to be here today. I was most impressed by your spectacular rally. Yesterday the performance of the N.C.C. Cadets in the Republic Day parade made us all very proud of all of you. Your splendid march on the Raj Path was watched by the entire Indian nation. Your discipline, your smartness and your cheerful faces should have inspired young people all over the country. I compliment the N.C.C. for the good show and team effort. Our country is justly proud of the National Cadet Corps. Since its inception the NCC has contributed a great deal to the development of the personalities of thousands of our youth. You represent the great diversity of our nation. You also symbolize our unity. It is delightful to see the unbreakable bond of friendship among cadets coming from different parts of our country, speaking a variety of languages and professing many creeds. In the NCC, we truly find an inspiring example of unity in diversity. The cadets of the N.C.C. have established a just reputation of serving society and the nation. Whenever our nation has confronted natural or man made disasters, the cadets of the NCC have displayed exemplary courage and bravery in extending relief to the affected people. I am very happy to learn that N.C.C. has spread far and wide across the country. I hope that in the years to come more and more of our youth will join the NCC. In fact I would urge all our students and youth to enroll themselves for NCC and Scouts and Guides since this is a very good life long experience in self-discipline. India needs a national movement of young people engaged actively in social development, sports and the development of personal character. Values like discipline, loyalty, comradeship, dedication to the Nation and to the cause of social equity are built through such movements. I am sure the NCC will play its part. After six decades of our independence, our Republic today marches forward with confidence. We have to move ahead with greater speed to sustain our progress and ensure social justice and equality to our people. Our one billion plus population, of which the youth constitute more than 30%, has much to benefit from the spirit of patriotism that drives you. The discipline and character required for this can be developed by cultivating values of common honesty and industry. It may interest you to know that Mahatma Gandhi was so impressed by the idea of a regular morning drill that he introduced this practice in his Wardha Scheme of Education. He wanted every student to participate in the drill. He saw its significance in the larger context of nation building. He addressed a Scouts Rally once and said, "If the whole nation of 300 million could be drilled so as to move together and act together and if necessary die together as one man, we should attain independence without striking a blow and set an example of a peaceful resolution for the whole world to emulate." For me this is the larger significance of the N.C.C. Rally. I once again greet you and extend to you my very best wishes to each one of you. May God bless you all. Jai Hind."
