"We gather here to honour a very special person. A living Gandhian. I am, therefore, truly delighted to be here this evening. I once again welcome Archbishop Desmond Tutu and extend to him the warmth, the affection and the respect of the people of India. I say that Bishop Tutu is a living Gandhian because there has been no greater example of the practice of Gandhiji's principles than the reconciliation effort in post-apartheid South Africa. Many of us admire Gandhiji, we respect Gandhiji, we want to emulate Gandhiji, we espouse the ideas and ideals of Gandhiji, but few of us have had the courage to practice what Gandhiji preached. You will recall what Mahatma Gandhi used to say to the people of Britain during our freedom movement. He wanted the end of British rule in India. He wanted the end of the British empire. He wanted the end of colonialism. Yet he sought friendship with the people of Britain. It is the same sentiment that Archbishop Desmond Tutu and his comrade-in-arms Nelson Mandela espoused through the institution of the Truth and Reconciliation Council. They fought for the end of apartheid. But they also fought to live in peace with all races, all religions and all communities. There is no better example of Gandhism than this. It is in recognition of their contribution to peace and humanity, to justice and civility that Bishop Desmond Tutu was conferred the Nobel Peace Prize. Today, in conferring the Gandhi Peace Prize, we are only adding our own voice to the global recognition of Bishop Tutu's Gandhism. India and South Africa are nations that are separated by an ocean but have been united by history. We have had the good fortune of being home to the inspirational work of men like Mahatma Gandhi, Nelson Mandela and Bishop Tutu. It is not just history and geography that bring India and South Africa together but also our shared vision of the world today, and the world of tomorrow. India and South Africa are partners in progress. We are both multi-cultural, multi-racial, multi-lingual, multi-religious democracies. Our experience and our example will show the way to the world in dealing with the challenges of the 21st century. I have often said that we in India reject the idea of "clash of civilizations" because we have been home to the "confluence of civilizations". Post-apartheid South Africa has also been home to the confluence of civilizations. Together we can show the world that it is possible for all men and women to live in peace. This requires an adherence to truth and a commitment to reconciliation. This requires the practice of the values Gandhiji espoused. We sincerely hope Bishop Tutu will continue to spread the light of reason and tolerance and bring peace to the world. I take this opportunity to salute the people of South Africa and their great leaders Nelson Mandela and Bishop Tutu. I do feel proud to share this platform with a great son of Africa and a man of peace, Bishop Tutu."
