"I am delighted to be here with you at the Closing Ceremony of the 33rd National Games. I congratulate the sportspersons, the coaches, the organizers, the Government of Assam and most importantly, the people of Assam for conducting these Games successfully in Guwahati. The scale and magnitude of these largest ever National Games is impressive speaks for itself. I am told that over 10,000 athletes and officials from 33 States and Union Territories participated in 32 disciplines. These Games have provided a unique opportunity for young people from all over the country to get together, live in the same environment, share the same food and at the same time compete with each other to attain higher and higher levels of sporting excellence. I am sure each of you will carry back a feeling of warmth, affection, camaraderie and sportsmanship, so abundantly shared here in Guwahati. I am sure you will all agree with me that the importance of any sport is the joy in playing it. Playing the game, and playing well is what sport is all about. I hope each one of you leave these games with the satisfaction that you have played the game well. At the same time you must also nurture the ambition and the desire to play better. Therefore, I hope you and others will return to the 34th National Games inspired to play even better. The time has come for all our sports-persons across the country to roll up their sleeves, tighten their belts and get prepared for the 2010 Commonwealth Games. Our National Flag must fly high and our torch must burn bright at those games. At the world stage we still have a lot to achieve if we have to do our nation proud. India is doing well in many fields and is gaining recognition for it across the world. The time has come now to prove our prowess in the sporting fields of the world. There is no dearth of talent in our vast country. The challenge lies in harnessing this talent, nurturing it, providing the best facilities, training and exposure. For this, an all round effort has to be made, involving Central and State Governments, Sports Federations, Universities and Schools. To start with, we need to see that our children are healthy and robust. After all, it is these children who will grow up to be healthy young adults and are the base from which we will see fresh sporting talent emerge. Children in many parts suffer from malnutrition. All states must work towards ensuring that our children are well-nourished, adequately taken care of and given proper medical care. These children will then go to school, take part in sports and games and then become sportsmen and sportswomen like you. Excellence in a large number of sports at the top is dependent on a wide base and I appeal to all to pay greater attention to this matter. We also have to develop a broad based 'sports culture' in which children are encouraged to play - by their parents, teachers and the community at large. Sports have to get their due in the curricula of schools. Sportsmen have to be treated as honored citizens. At the same time sports infrastructure has to be developed country wide, sporting facilities have to be made available to youngsters in rural areas. Sponsorship of sports by the corporate sector has to increase manifold. Our corporate sector must look beyond a few popular games like cricket and support new disciplines where domestic talent is blossoming. Corporate participation also needs to be extended to the creation of infrastructure for sports excellence. I know that the task is challenging, but not impossible. In the last two years, our Government has paid special attention to sports and youth affairs. We are committed to taking India to the top in the Commonwealth Games, in Asian Games and, with your effort and dedication, in the Olympics. We may host an Asian Games in the near future. We must set our sights on hosting an Olympics as well. Unless we aim high we will never be able to reach the top. I urge all our children, students and youth to take keen interest in sports. We must regain our position in such sports as Hockey, Football, Table Tennis, Tennis and Boxing, and do much better in Athletics and Gymnastics. I am happy to see that games like Badminton and Golf have become popular and Indians are beginning to do well. It has often struck me that we Indians tend to do better in individual-oriented sports rather than team-based sports. Perhaps that is a comment on what drives us. But we must learn to work together and play together. The success of any sport, indeed the success of any effort as much as the success of any nation, is based on team effort. Games like these help in building the national character by inculcating in us that team spirit. They are also an occasion for promoting national integration. I hope when each one of you returns to your communities and to your families you will inculcate in all your friends this spirit of working together and playing together; this spirit of being part of a great nation. Your unity in your diversity is a symbol of the spirit of India. I am delighted that, Assam, my home in many ways, has successfully hosted the 33rd National Games. Assam is a land of great beauty, rich culture and proud traditions. 'Asoma' in Sanskrit means 'peerless'. No doubt the natural beauty of Assam, together with the richness of its culture, makes it peerless. Sports and Games have also had a significant place in the lives of our people here. The 'Rang Ghar' of Sibsagar, which is the logo of the games, aptly symbolizes the sporting traditions of the Ahom kingdom. The 'Rongmon', the mascot, has become immensely popular across the country. I felicitate the people of Assam on this great occasion. The last time the National Games were held in this part of our country, it was at Imphal. The North East has contributed greatly to the success of Indian sport. This region has been home to some of our most impressive sports personalities in recent times. And teams from this region have done exceedingly well in these games as well. This is particularly true of Manipur whose achievements in the sports arena are far greater than its size. I salute the spirit of adventure, the spirit of enterprise and the spirit of team work of the great people of our North Eastern region. Many of you have inspired young people across the country. I say three cheers to each of you. I must compliment the Government of Assam and its Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi for their role in creating an impressive infrastructure for these National Games. I know that a lot of resources, planning and effort have gone into this. The Games have been conducted smoothly and efficiently for which they are to be complimented. However, I think the real challenge begins now. The challenge of effectively and efficiently using and maintaining this massive infrastructure and promote the cause of sports in Assam. We need to build on this excellent start and sustain this momentum for the future. I hope the State Governments and all those associated with sports development will remain active in the coming months and years, and promote sports in Assam and other North Eastern States. This evening we recognize the multitude of sporting talent in our midst. My congratulations to the participants. We are pleased to honour those who have brought glory to themselves and their states. We applaud your skills and celebrate your achievements. We remember the many sacrifices you have made to excel. We rejoice in your success. All of you may not have won medals. But I salute your untiring efforts, undaunted spirit and enthusiasm. Success is not the only yardstick to assess one's abilities. What matters is the spirit. The spirit and the will to excel and endure. I am sure each and every one of you will do even better in future. I would like to once again congratulate the organizers of the 33rd National Games and, in particular, the patriotic people of Assam, for conducting the National Games so efficiently. I would also like to compliment all the officials, workers and security personnel who have worked tirelessly to ensure the smooth conduct of the Games. Finally, I must thank the people of Guwahati for participating in this event so enthusiastically. Every game needs both players and an audience. My best wishes to you all. I now declare Closed the 33rd National Games."
