"I am very happy to be here this morning to inaugurate the First India Disaster Management Congress. I am delighted to see that this is a gathering of various eminent disciplines, including scientists, engineers, social scientists, administrators and representatives of the civil society. The management of disasters, and of risk reduction, requires, such an inter-disciplinary approach, and, in practice, an inter-ministerial and inter-agency approach. I, therefore, congratulate the organizers for adopting such an inter-disciplinary approach in organizing this conference. We live in an age where human knowledge is growing at an unprecedented pace. It is, therefore, all the more important that people from various learned disciplines come together, pool their wisdoms, knowledge and experience and devise practical, pragmatic solution to the problems that all modern societies face. We have, in India, had a long history of professional management of natural disasters. Even in the colonial era, the discipline of disaster management had got the attention of administrators. India's Famine Code is remembered all over the world in dealing with problems of drought. There were detailed and explicit codes for the management of floods, droughts and other disasters. In the post-independence period, we have had a rich tradition of effective administrative response to disasters. This is why the Administrative Reforms Commission in its recent report has reiterated the importance of local governments in immediate response to disasters. We need to further strengthen and empower local administration with information, with experience, with logistics and other support in coping with disasters. This is where the new institutions and organizations we have created have to play a constructive and path-finding role. As our economy becomes more modern and integrated, the economic and social costs of natural and man-made disasters are bound to increase. Even minor disruptions to normal life can have profound consequences in an integrated economy. It is also more difficult to insulate regions and peoples from the consequences of disasters. The spread of modern media has also increased the pressure on governments and related agencies to respond to disasters with greater speed and alacrity.Further, diversion of scarce resources to meet disasters can have serious implications for the growth and development of the economy. Precious and scarce resources which could have been gainfully employed on developmental projects get diverted to relief and rehabilitation. The passage in Parliament last year, of the first ever national legislation on Disaster Management was, therefore, an important step that represented our country's resolve and determination to respond in a more scientific manner to such problems. This legislation has put in place a dedicated and exclusive mechanism at all levels - National, State and District - to engage in a holistic, integrated and continuous manner with the process of Disaster Management. This mechanism is extremely useful in developing capacities to cope with disasters, prepare plans for disaster prevention and management and keeping all systems in readiness for a rapid and quick response.I do believe that the time has come for a paradigm shift in disaster management from a "relief-centric" and "post-event" response, to a regime that lays greater emphasis on preparedness, prevention and mitigation. Such an approach should place emphasis on improving early warning systems, ensuring the reach and efficacy of dissemination, creating awareness and building capacities at all levels of public administration. I am, therefore, very happy that the draft National Policy on Disaster Management, places great emphasis on efficient management of disasters, rather than only focus on immediate response to disasters. I must emphasise here that our disaster management administration is an integral part of overall administration. We cannot improve the quality of disaster management in isolation. Nor should we create parallel structures at the cost of regular administration. An improvement in disaster management has to be an integral part of the improvement in governance at all levels, especially in district administration. What we need are better support structures, which can make our responses to disasters more efficient, more rapid and more effective. I must also add that disaster management should also be humane, apart from being efficient. Such a humane policy must pay due attention to the needs of children, senior citizens, women, disabled persons and weaker sections of society. Equally, it must be based on ensuring that in a post-disaster situation, the affected communities can be assured sustainable livelihoods, and they are assured of a reduced vulnerability to future disasters. Accountability, people's participation, predictability and transparency will, therefore, have to be key features of such a policy. I can assure you that in our Government there is the requisite political will to tackle the gigantic task of disaster management. I commit our government to developing a robust disaster management system, working in close collaboration with the corporate sector, with community-based organizations and the scientific and academic community. I see no reason why, in a very short while, impressive results cannot be achieved in this critical area.I conclude by congratulating Prof. Yunus and Dr. Arya for the prestigious award conferred on them. I hope your conference will come forward with new and innovative ideas and approaches to deal with the complex problems and issues we face in this field of disaster management. I wish your conference all success".
