"I am very grateful to all the Chief Ministers who have accepted our invitation to attend this Tenth meeting of the Inter-State Council. The meeting has been called specifically to discuss issues relating to a deep malaise involving atrocities committed on the most underprivileged segments of our society, i.e. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. This is a scourge which demands the formulation and articulation of our Nation's collective will and a determined effort to fight it and root it out of our society without any loss of further time. In the recent past, we have witnessed disturbing incidents and reports of atrocities against SCs and STs in some places. It is my perception that there seem to be some areas which are more atrocity prone. There are also shocking reports at times of apathy and a lack of sensitivity in handling the aftermath of such incidents. The figures of atrocities should be a matter of grave national concern for all of us. A disconcerting feature is that some states account for a majority of the incidents of such atrocities. I believe that the time is ripe for a serious introspection and a comprehensive review of our existing approaches, existing strategies and existing measures which are in place so that we are effective in controlling such incidents and are able to generate a greater sense of security and hope among our weaker sections. Mahatma Gandhi had emphasized the removal of untouchability. He had stressed on the necessity to assimilate the underprivileged in the mainstream as part of the task of building the edifice of swaraj. Today, as our country experiences rapid economic growth, it becomes all the more necessary that we ensure that our growth is truly inclusive. Otherwise, the growth in itself is of no value. The weaker sections, particularly those who have undergone historic seclusion, must be brought within the fold and allowed to participate and contribute effectively to processes of development. Incidents of atrocities immediately negate any positive results of growth. Justice for the weakest has to have the highest priority even more than the productivity indices and it is here that each one of us has a role to play. It should be our endeavour to ensure that the members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are equal stakeholders in processes of economic and social development and that they are able to deal with atrocities and the curbing of their civil, social, economic and political rights. We need a development paradigm where we are able to guarantee to hitherto suppressed sections the freedoms of an open society and an inclusive democracy which we all cherish. Continuing atrocities against the weaker sections are a matter of national disgrace in a civilized society. Our Constitution has provisions for protecting their interests and prohibiting discrimination. We have on our statutes the Untouchability (Offences) Act, subsequently renamed as the Protection of Civil Rights Act. Further, to check and deter crimes against SCs and STs, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 was enacted during the tenure of Prime Minister, Late Shri Rajiv Gandhi. This act was necessary as the normal provisions of IPC did not provide adequate deterrence in preventing atrocities. This Act is one of the most far-reaching legislations and provides State Governments with optimal powers to create Institutional instrumentalities that could strike at the roots of the causes that feed atrocities on the underprivileged sections. Creation of these instruments is necessary for effective implementation of the provisions. I am told, however, that the implementation of this act and its provisions has not been as effective as it could have been. Cases continue to be registered under weaker provisions of the IPC rather than the stronger provisions of the POA Act. More often than not, the distinction between regular crimes and those covered by the POA Act has not percolated down. Both the afflicted and those in charge of implementing this Act need therefore to be sensitized on these differences. States should consider setting up special cells, preferably manned by senior officers belonging to the SC/ST community, to monitor and enforce the implementation of the POA Act. Atrocity prone districts too could have such cells. At the Central Government level, we have formed a Committee of Ministers on Dalit Affairs to monitor and implement programmes for the welfare and development of Scheduled Castes. We have been issuing guidelines to states from time to time for better implementation of the POA Act. A high level Central Committee under the Chairpersonship of Hon'ble Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment has been constituted in March 2006 for effective coordination to curb offences of untouchability and atrocities. However, such legislations alone are not sufficient. In dealing with social violence there must be compassion for the victim and a firm resolve to deal with the perpetrator of these crimes. What is needed is the political will to eliminate atrocities; the will to enforce the law; the will to ensure easy access to the police and the justice system to vulnerable sections; the will to provide relief and succor to all those who are affected by atrocities; the will to ensure that all sections of society feel that they are part of our polity and society and are equal partners in processes of growth and development; the will, in the final analysis, to ensure that every section of society has a sense of belonging. It is my earnest request to all the Chief Ministers present here to address themselves to this major task of nation building which rests on the shoulders of each one of them. Let us together build a nation which is great and also inclusive. Jai Hind."
