"This visit to Japan was for me a most memorable visit to your beautiful country. First of all, Mr. Prime Minister, allow me to convey very sincere appreciation for the warm welcome and gracious hospitality extended to me and my delegation. The Prime Minister and I have just concluded a very cordial, fruitful and extensive exchange of views on our bilateral relationship as well as on issues of mutual interest in regional and international affairs. Prime Minister Abe has already given you an overview of our discussions. I will, therefore, touch upon only a few salient aspects. As two vibrant democracies sharing common values and aspirations, we have much to contribute to each other. We have converging political, economic and strategic interests and concerns. We are both committed to the promotion of peace, stability and economic integration for shared prosperity in Asia. Indeed, India and Japan are natural partners, with a mutual stake in each other's progress. There is much that we can and should do together. To underline this point, we have already agreed to establish a Strategic and Global Partnership. It will be our endeavour to strengthen our political and diplomatic coordination on bilateral, regional and global issues, enhance our defence relations, undertake comprehensive economic engagement, to widen cooperation in science and technology and to seek a major expansion of people-to-people contacts. India-Japan relations are today poised for a transformation and we have resolved to seize this historic moment. We are determined to counter terrorism in all its forms, in whatever garb it is cloaked and wherever it raises its head. We have decided to act in concert to oppose the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The launch of negotiations on an India-Japan Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement marks the beginning of a new phase in our economic relations, which will enable us to develop their full potential and promise. We have decided to work together for a quantum leap in educational and cultural ties and people-to-people contacts. Mere incremental increases are not what we seek. As a mark of this commitment, Prime Minister Abe and I launched the India-Japan Friendship Year 2007 as well as the Festival of India in Japan yesterday. In conclusion, I am deeply satisfied with the outcome of my visit, and I am delighted that Prime Minister Abe has accepted my invitation to visit India next year. Mr. Prime Minister, we appreciate your personal commitment to the cause of India-Japan partnership. Let me assure you that I reciprocate your sentiments in the fullest possible measure."
