Today we are gathered here to mark the 146th birth anniversary of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore. I compliment my colleague, Shri Priya Ranjan Dasmunshiji, for organizing this important event to recapture the undying spirit of our freedom struggle. The organisation of this event, where we pay homage to the memory of Gurudev and Mahatma Gandhi makes this event even more special. Gurudev Tagore's melodious songs inspired our freedom fighters and generations of Indians. Both he and Mahatma Gandhi summoned extraordinary courage from the depths of ordinary people's hearts and motivated them to great acts of heroism and sacrifice. I am happy to note that the Ministry of Broadcasting has prepared a comprehensive documentation on the Satyagraha and is popularising Gurudev's songs through the Prasar Bharati network. I hope all TV channels will also join in this celebration of Gurudev's rich legacy. This year we have had several occasions to pay our deepest respects to Mahatma Gandhi, marking the centenary of his first Satyagraha. Satyagraha was his weapon in the struggle for freedom. In the beginning he walked alone. And, in walking alone he was often inspired by Tagore's poem, ekla chalo rey. The sheer moral force of his actions attracted millions of people towards him. They walked with him. He inspired them to sacrifice for the liberation of our country from colonial rule. Satyagraha empowered the weakest of the weak. On one occasion he described it as the mute prayer of the agonized soul. Mahatma Gandhiji was willing to walk alone because he had the courage of conviction. He was joined by coolies, by labourers, by traders, by children and women, by British and German follower, by Africans and the Chinese residents of Johannesburg. They all walked with him in the first Satyagraha. What he could do by harnessing truth cast a spell on the world at large. Satyagraha, apart from being a method to fight against injustice, was also a means to cultivate an open mind, restrain one's passions, consume less, share more, live simply and keep oneself healthy. Satyagraha stressed the importance of performing one's duties before asserting one's rights. In pursuing these noble objectives, Mahatma Gandhiji did not count on the support of any body except his inner voice. It is this voice that Gurudev Tagore captured beautifully in the lines of his immortal song Yadi Tor Dak Suney. By calling him "mahatma", Gurudev acknowledged Gandhiji's true inner self. Gandhiji hailed Tagore as Gurudev. Both became icons of our freedom struggle movement. They had their shared vision and yet agreed to differ on many issues. The lively debates they had on several issues educated our nation about the methods of discourse for establishing a democracy in our country. It was in one such debate with Tagore, that Gandhiji made that famous statement about the need to keep one's doors and windows open, allowing the winds of other cultures to flow in, yet not be blown away by any. This event today rekindles the spirit of Mahatma Gandhi and Rabindranath Tagore. It should inspire us to nurture the values that they and other leaders of our freedom struggle espoused. In upholding these values we may sometimes have to walk alone - ekla chalo rey, as Gurudev one sang. One must walk alone, if the path is righteous. By walking the righteous path, one creates the way for others. So one must walk, however lonely that journey; one must walk, with one's head held high. This, in the final analysis, is the only path to fulfilment. With these words, I wish Prasar Bharati success in reaching Gurudev's songs to a new generation so that they too are inspired to walk on the path of righteousness.
