"I am indeed happy to be here today for this very important meeting. The welfare and well being of our soldiers, ex-servicemen, widows and their dependents have always been a subject very close to my heart. Indeed, the subject of ex-servicemen's welfare has in fact been identified by me as a thrust area of the Government's functioning and my Office is monitoring it regularly and very closely. I believe that the most befitting tribute we can pay to the exemplary sacrifices that our valiant soldiers have made for the nation, is for us to look after them in the best possible manner after they retire. The Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare is indeed making consistent efforts for re-employment / placement of ex-servicemen in different sectors with the cooperation of the State Governments, trade and industry organizations and other agencies. But I do recognize that the more energetic efforts are needed in this direction. And all of us have an obligation to explore more effective ways and means to provide opportunities for gainful employment for our ex-servicemen once they retire. I have learnt that the Hon'ble Raksha Mantri has written to all the Chief Ministers and Lt. Governors to strengthen the Rajya Sainik Boards and Zila Sainik Boards so that they are able to help retiring soldiers in finding suitable second careers in civil life. Our soldiers retire at a comparatively very young age and their valuable experience, skills and disciplined services can be gainfully utilized and must be so utilised. Their services can be used in a host of fields like transportation, administration, medicine, aviation, security, tourism and the now fast emerging IT industry, to name just a few. By drawing on this very valuable national resource we would not only be helping our ex-servicemen but also provide skilled human resources in many critical areas of our economy and indeed not to utilize this vast talent pool would be an act of not doing justice to the vast latent talent bank that exists amongst our ex-servicemen. Therefore, I believe, these Boards need to work in close cooperation with various Government and non-Government agencies as well as the corporate sector to combine efforts to improve the lot of our ex-servicemen and their dependents. Large segment of our society in the public sector, private sector, central government and the state government must pool their wisdom, knowledge and experience to provide gainful opportunities for an ever increasing number of ex-servicemen. I, therefore, request the Ministry of Defence to give high priority to the training aspect as well. To help prepare soldiers on the verge of retirement for a second career, the Directorate General of Resettlement under the aegis of the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare, I believe, does organize a number of training programmes these need to be revitalized. Rajya Sainik Boards and Zila Sainik Boards also provide training to ex-servicemen, though that number is not large. In this context, I note that the year 2007 has been declared as 'Year of Placement for Ex-servicemen'. A target for employment of 32,650 ex-servicemen during the calendar year 2007 has been set. I do believe it is possible to do better and to see if a quarterly target of 10,000 can be met if not exceeded. Medical facilities for ex-servicemen and their families are a source of continuing concern. The Ex-servicemen's Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) provides for comprehensive medical care to ex-servicemen pensioners, war-widows and their dependents. It is good that war-widows and war-disabled pensioners have been exempted from payment of contribution for ECHS membership. The needs of war widows and the war-disabled require more focused and urgent attention. Their welfare should be given very high priority indeed. I have been informed that under this Scheme the number of functional polyclinics has gone up to 227 and that the majority of these polyclinics have also been linked to referral hospital facilities and diagnostic centre facilities. However, it is also true that the targets set are yet to be achieved, therefore, we need to re-double our efforts in this regard as well. I sincerely hope that the number of these clinics will continue to increase to cater to our population of ex-servicemen and their families. This is an area of urgent action. It is apparent that ex-servicemen and families who stay far from military stations require improved access to medical facilities. Practical solutions to this problem should be found early and found early enough. I am also happy about recent initiatives taken by the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare to strengthen the mechanism for prompt redressal of the grievances of Defence pensioners. These include computerization of the pension sanctioning offices and organizing regular Defence Pension Adalats in different parts of the country. In this context, I believe we need to intensify efforts to ensure that the targets set for Pension Adalats are met. It is a matter of satisfaction that following our decision taken last year, with effect from 01.01.2006, the pensionary benefits of Personnel Below Officer Rank have improved significantly. This, I believe, has benefited about 12 lakh pensioners. I take this opportunity to also seek your help for the families of the serving soldiers posted in far-flung locations. As the soldiers are posted far from home, it is difficult for them to attend to the needs of their families, and to deal with property related matters and other personal issues. To assist them we need a mechanism by which at the District level, the Collector, and at the State level a nominated senior officer can every quarter review the status of grievance redressals. Such grievance redressal meetings for the benefit of ex-servicemen can be organised in conjunction with the Sainik Boards in States on the lines of Pension Adalats. State Governments could also consider introducing e-enabled services for dissemination of relevant information and guidance for the benefit of Ex-servicemen through dedicated web sites. Last year I announced a scheme to provide scholarships for the children of ex-servicemen to pursue professional education in management studies, engineering, medicine and a variety of other disciplines. The scheme is being funded from the National Defence Fund and I believe that there is no better way to repay the debt we owe to our ex-servicemen than to provide for the education of their children. I am very happy that in the very first year of the scheme itself we have awarded scholarships to 3,915 meritorious students from the families of our ex-servicemen and paramilitary forces. This is a small recognition of the great contribution that our armed forces make to the protection of our liberties, to the strengthening of our vital borders and promotion of our vital national interests. The Kendriya Sainik Board is an apex body which makes recommendations towards formulating policies for the welfare of ex-servicemen, war widows, disabled soldiers and their families. The various agencies of the Government, which deal with these matters, will give careful consideration to these recommendations. I thank Hon'ble Raksha Mantriji for inviting me to this very important event and I hope that many useful suggestions and initiatives for the welfare of our soldiers and their families will emerge from this meeting. I wish you all the success in your endeavours."
