I am happy to be here today to launch the EDUSAT Satellite based educational programmes in Haryana. I must begin by paying homage to the memory of two great Indians who are responsible for satellite based educational programmes in our country. First and foremost, I pay homage to our beloved leader and former Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi. Second, I pay homage to that great scientist, industrialist and visionary, Vikram Sarabhai. Indiraji grasped the vital role of satellite television in our vast sub-continental nation. Dr. Sarabhai emphasized its role in spreading literacy and awareness. The EDUSAT Programme is a realization of their dreams.I am seriously concerned at the slow progress of literacy in our country. We need a crash programme to increase literacy to over 80 per cent in all regions of the country. I am also concerned about the poor functioning of our government schools, especially in rural areas. The quality of education in the government school system is not satisfactory. There is a belief that the quality gap between public schools and private schools is increasing. I believe that greater effort is required to bridge this quality gap if good education is not to become a preserver of the privileged classes only. To have a high quality public schooling system, we need better teacher training and more importantly, better teaching of science and mathematics. Numeracy skills and scientific knowledge are the key to success in the knowledge economy and the EDUSAT programme can an important tool for improving science education in schools. I hope these objectives are addressed and served by the EDUSAT progrmme, I request those who are associated with the programme to ensure that the quality of programming is good. That it is both educational and entertaining. We have invested crores of rupees in good quality hardware. We must ensure that the software is equally good. Educational programmes should not be bored and dull. The television should not just become a podium from which lectures are giving. It is necessary to develop good visuals, graphics and other material that can be shown to the viewer. I hope students enjoy learning through EDUSAT. EDUSAT can also be used for a variety of purposes by district authorities, like teleconferencing, data transmission and so on. I hope the best use will be made of this technology in promoting rural development. I am happy to launch this prograqmme here. I wish you all the best. Haryana is making great strides in all walks of life and is a dynamic state of our union.
