"I am delighted to be associated today with the dedication to our Nation of the Tala Transmission System. The Tala Hydro electric project and the Tala Transmission System are of immense national significance. Not just because they signify availability of additional electric power but more so because they are important symbols of regional economic cooperation in South Asia.  They are shining examples of what can be achieved if nations in this region work hand in hand to achieve our common development objectives.  On this happy occasion, it is my privilege to convey His Majesty the King of Bhutan and the people of Bhutan our most sincere and warm greetings and gratitude.  India-Bhutan cooperation has emerged as a great symbol of good neighbourliness. Warm and close relations that the people of India and Bhutan have had for centuries have been further strengthened in recent years through extensive cooperation in many fields of development. India is privileged that it has had the opportunity to play a positive and helpful role in Bhutan's accelerated development in recent years. Our two countries are committed to promote cooperation in diverse fields to our common mutual benefit. The Tala Hydroelectric project and the Tala Transmission System symbolize our resolve to find new pathways of regional cooperation for sustainable development in our region. We live in an increasingly interdependent world. The challenges before us are to promote a balanced and equitable management of this growing interdependence of nations. The challenges we face as nations are increasingly less amenable to purely national and autonomous solutions. Energy security, food security, environmental degradation and climate change recognize no national borders. Pandemics like HIV/AIDS, Malaria, TB or Avian Flu can only be contained or overcome through international cooperation, both regionally and globally. Regional cooperation provides unique opportunities to transform the richness of our human and natural resources into cooperative regional activities promoting development, enhancing prosperity and the well-being of our people, and ensuring our collective security in all its multifarious dimensions. Regional cooperation is a means to achieve more efficient use of regional resources, make our economies more complementary and promote the expansion of trade and development.  Today, we are linking India into a web of partnerships with the countries of the region and beyond through free trade and economic cooperation agreements. The emergence of the Indian economy over the last few years as one of the fastest growing economies in the world offers opportunities of expanding markets, investments, technology and entrepreneurial resources for the countries in our region. Some successful examples already exist such as India's FTAs with Sri Lanka and Nepal, cooperation with Bhutan in tapping the huge hydropower potential and trade creating investments in Nepal. The growing purchasing power of Indians has helped boost tourism into Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka. Much more can be done, and we look forward to working with our neighbours for our common mutual benefit. I know that the potential for regional cooperation in South Asia is immense and we have not even scratched the surface. I believe that the best is yet to come and we must all work towards realizing this ambitious objective. This transmission system is also a symbol of national integration. This system will enable us to evacuate power from Bhutan and supply it to the eastern and northern regions of our country. This will augment the capacity of the national power grid and make it easier for us to balance the supply and demand equation in power. A large sub-continental economy like ours, with a diverse portfolio of natural resources and physical endowments, must walk on two legs in addressing the growing demand for power. On the one hand, we must invest in local and small-scale sources of power generation and transmission; and, on the other hand, we must continue to invest in large thermal, hydro and nuclear power systems. The Tala project is also a symbol of the potential of hydro power. I do hope that we can replicate our highly successful, win-win model of bilateral cooperation with Bhutan in the power sector with Nepal too. Hydro power is clean and renewable. We must tap the energy in our river systems in this region more effectively and more efficiently. This can be done to the benefit of all countries in the region. It is a win-win model of cooperation.I am of course aware that there are concerns pertaining to ecology and rehabilitation and resettlement in the case of large hydroelectric projects. I am fully cognizant of such concerns and they must be addressed. I do sincerely believe that it is possible for us to take care of our people and our environment while undertaking hydro power projects. It is precisely to address such concerns that the Ministry of Power is constituting a Task Force on Hydro Power. I am reassured to see a national consensus emerge at the recent meeting of Chief Ministers on the need to reduce T&D; losses. I had urged all Chief Ministers to launch a national campaign against thefts in their states. The Chief Ministers had agreed to set up special courts for speedy disposal of theft cases. I hope these will be operationalised soon. The Centre will provide financial assistance for upgrading transmission and distribution systems. We had agreed that as losses come down to agreed levels, we will reward performing states appropriately. As I had announced, the APDRP scheme is being revised and a National Power Project Management Board will be set up to assist State and Central utilities to ensure timely completion of all power projects. The time has come for us to address the challenge on the energy front on a war-footing. Availability of  quality power at affordable cost has emerged as the most important constraint on the pace of our development. The complacency of the past, be it with regard to conventional or non-conventional sources of power, or indeed nuclear power, must come to an end. The people of our country are not going to wait endlessly for us to sort out our administrative, political and theological problems. With these words, I compliment all those who have been associated with the completion of the Tala Transmission System. I have great pleasure in dedicating this project to our Nation. I wish you all success in your future endeavors."
