"It gives me great pleasure to be here today to witness the arrival of new aircraft from Boeing and Airbus for addition to our fleet of the national carriers. I am also happy to launch the new freighter operations of our national carriers. These two happy developments have come at an opportune time, when the market for air travel and air cargo is expanding rapidly. This is a truly historic day for all those associated with Air India and Indian Airlines. I take pride in the fact that our Government has taken steps to bring to an end a long period of neglect of our national carriers. I compliment my colleague Shri Praful Patel and the present leadership of Air India and Indian Airlines for their important forward looking and innovative role. Over the last several decades, both Air India and Indian Airlines have rendered great service to our nation - both commercially and in providing logistic support for national efforts in diverse fields. There was a time when Air India was regarded as one of the world's best airlines. I am sure that Air India will once again regain that reputation. That should be our common ambition, that should be our common aim. In this, you have our support in full measure. Given our tradition of hospitality we in India should be at the forefront of growth of such service industries as civil aviation. I am also happy that with greater competition there is now increased pressure from market forces driving the process of change and improvement in civil aviation business as well.The aviation environment in our country has recorded a sea change over the last three to four years and I complement my colleague Praful Patel for this contribution to this happy outcome. The opening up of the skies has created new market opportunities for civil aviation business in our country. However, our national carriers were unable to take full advantage of the opportunities at hand for a variety of reasons. The shortage of aircraft was one such and our Government has taken decisive steps to address this particular problem. Within a short period of about one year we were able to place orders for 43 Airbus aircraft for Indian Airlines and 68 Boeing aircraft for Air India. This has been, I am told, by far the largest procurement of aircraft by any airline in our country. I commend all those who have been associated with this process. With the acquisition of these new aircraft, our national carriers will be better placed to take on competition both at home and abroad. I understand that the aircraft presently on order will match up to the airlines' requirements in the domestic sector, regional sectors as well as long-haul international sectors. I compliment Air India for hitting the ground run, as it were, by launching a non-stop service between Mumbai and New York. The sense of enthusiasm, the sense of excitement and indeed an element of euphoria that these new aircraft have brought to the two airlines is indeed heart-warming and very satisfying. I hope they will rekindle the lost élan of these two national carriers. New aircraft and new terminals are only the new hardware of your business. New management styles, better service quality and more focused customer care are the more valuable elements of your business. Your business is not just about getting world class aircraft, but also about ensuring that world class service levels become the norm. I would like you to focus your attention on that aspect with greater renewed vigour . Our airports, our airlines and all related systems must be world class and must make every customer and client feel truly cared for. The time has come when India should aspire in all these activities to compete with the very best in the world. It is in this context that I note with pleasure the opportunity in the civil aviation sector that has tremendous growth potential is, I am referring to, the movement of cargo. I am happy that Air India and Indian Airlines will foray into this business. In a globalised and increasingly integrated business environment, efficient aviation logistics of adequate scale are a crucial element of the world-wide supply chain network of business corporations. I am happy to see our national carriers take on this new challenge, with renewed enthusiasm. I wish them the best on this front too. Our national carriers have served the country well but I do believe that the best is yet to come. They have to be prepared for meeting the challenge of increased competition and the challenge of change both globally and in the domestic market. I hope all of you will pool your wisdom, knowledge and experience to meet this challenge of change and competition. Working together and working hard, you can ensure the dawn of a new era in the history of Indian civil aviation. With these words I once again congratulate both the Air India management and the Indian Airlines management for the new acquisition, may your path be blessed."
