"I am delighted that the International Conference on Peace, Non-Violence and Empowerment that we had organized under the inspiring leadership of Smt. Sonia Gandhi has generated this very impressive volume. I compliment all those associated with this valued effort. I hope this book will be used all over the world as a ready reference on the ideas and the ideals we associate with the name of Mahatma Gandhi. The theme of this conference was 'Gandhian Philosophy in the 21st Century.' It is a tribute to the continued and continuing relevance of Mahatma Gandhi's ideas and ideals, for our time and indeed for all time to come, that this Conference has attracted so much international attention. It is important for people as well as for the nations to recall the sacrifice and struggle of their national heroes. But then, Mahatma Gandhi was not just a national hero. His message had a global, universal relevance and continues to do so in our very troubled times. As long as we live in a world where there is injustice, where there is inequality, where there is violence, where there are greed and hatred, the message of Mahatma will ring true for all. Today is the 9th of August - the anniversary of the launch of the Quit India Movement. When Mahatma Gandhi gave that slogan, he was not giving a negative slogan of rejection of the world. He was giving a positive slogan of empowerment of our people. Mahatma Gandhi used Satyagraha as a means of arousing the latent energy of our people to fight for their freedom from a life of humiliation and seek a life of freedom and dignity. Gandhiji's heroic struggle and his philosophy based on truth and non-violence inspired legendary freedom fighters and freedom movements worldwide. It was in South Africa that Gandhiji first experienced the regime of unjust discrimination which was sought to be enforced by the use of brute force. He exhorted the people not to surrender but to resist unitedly through peaceful civil disobedience. That is what led to the birth of Satyagraha, which over the years evolved into an effective revolutionary instrument of human empowerment. The commemoration of the centenary of the Satyagraha, therefore, in a befitting manner became our national duty. I am proud that the Indian National Congress, under the leadership of Smt. Sonia Gandhi, took the initiative to do so. The International Conference we organised brought together leaders of nations, freedom fighters, philosophers, social activists and civil society organizations from nearly every corner of the world. It provided a useful platform of interaction and an opportunity to discuss and debate the issues that were close to Gandhiji's heart, including peace and non-violence, hunger and poverty, education and empowerment of the people. The Declaration adopted unanimously at the Conference reflected contemporary challenges confronting the world and reiterated the resolve of the world leaders to surmount them by invoking the Gandhian methods. I am very happy that one major demand of the Satyagraha Conference Declaration, to urge the United Nations to declare Mahatma Gandhi's date of birth (2nd October) as International Day of Non-Violence, has indeed met. To follow up the call of the Conference, India had tabled a Resolution in the United Nations General Assembly, which received spontaneous support of an overwhelming majority of member countries. The decision was truly historic and universally welcomed. We are grateful to all those who supported us in this magnificent endeavour. This volume underscores once again that Mahatma Gandhi's message was not confined to his lifetime nor restricted to our people or only our region. It was and it is universal and all encompassing. He belongs to all humankind and the ideas and the values espoused by him will continue to inspire generations to come for a long time. This book is illuminated by the wisdom of world leaders who had honoured us by their presence in New Delhi. Their analytical and sincere observations will be read with keen interest by those who derive inspiration from the life and work of Mahatma Gandhi. May I take this opportunity to convey my very sincere appreciation of the leadership role played by the Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi, in organizing this magnificent conference and in taking several initiatives to perpetuate the memory of Mahatma Gandhi for future generations. I also thank members of the Satyagraha Centenary Committee and all those associated with the New Delhi Conference and the publication of this volume. May your path be blessed."
