"I sincerely believe that the Rajiv Gandhi Sadbhavana Award has come to truly symbolize the inner core of the personality of our great beloved leader, late Shri Rajiv Gandhi. Over the years we have honoured ourselves by honouring some of the great sons and daughters of our nation through this prestigious award. Each year, as I have sat here and reflected on the qualities of the award winners, I have been heartened by the thought that Rajiv Gandhi would have been proud to honour these men and women. That is why, this year too, I feel a deep sense of satisfaction that we are doing justice to the memory and the living legacy of Rajivji by honouring Shri Hembhai. Shri Rajiv Gandhi once said that "Non-violence comprises the values of truth and tolerance, compassion and concern for all humanity, coexistence and celebration of diversity". I do believe that Hembhai, from my adopted state of Assam, is a living example of non-violent mass action for peaceful social transformation. He is a truly deserving recipient of this prestigious award for translating into action, the ideals for which Shri Rajiv Gandhi lived for and laid down his life. Deeply influenced by India's ancient ethos of co-existence, Hembhai became its exponent and practitioner right from his youth. During his college days, he resolutely stood for non-violent direct action in opposition to compulsory military training. He emerged victorious in that struggle and established his credentials at an early age, as a man wedded to the cause of non-violence, peace and understanding. He organized the Peace Soldiers in Assam and worked for national integration and peaceful social change. Hembhai, and people like him, symbolize hope in our troubled times. At a time when Assam was going through the pain of social turmoil and the nation was appalled by the barbarism at Nelli, Hembhai gave us reason to hope. His deep humanism was like a ray of sunshine in a dark place. It was at that terrible time that Hembhai was asked to go to Assam from Vinobaji's Ashram to spread the message of peace and non-violence. He exemplified the voice of sanity. His Peace Mission sought to remove the fear psychosis gripping the minds of people at the time. Like a true Gandhian he went and camped in areas devastated by bloody violence, facing great threats to his life. His non-violent act assuaged a wounded people and restored their hope and confidence in themselves. Through such acts of Sadbhavana, he was able to win the hearts and minds of a people living in fear and in an atmosphere of anger and frustration. The Peace Mission Padyatra he undertook revitalized the spirit of the people of Assam. Hembhai also helped the victims of violence to rebuild their lives and showed ways in which people can be productively engaged and find the means to stand on their own feet. His Shanti Sadbhavana Ashram aims to create employment opportunities for the unemployed youth of Assam. It is indeed encouraging that many young people joined his Ashram by giving up arms. By changing their mind through practical action he has given substance and meaning to the concept of Sadbhavana. When people are so engaged in the activities of a normal life, they liberate themselves from the clutches of those who wish to divide us and disrupt our lives. It is this message of peace and practical action which is necessary to arrest the trend of extremism and anti-national activities in Assam and some other parts of our country. I also compliment Hembhai on his effort to bring people of all faiths onto one platform for promoting harmony and collectively fighting problems such as HIV/AIDS. I am happy to learn of the good work inspired by Hembhai and undertaken by the Voluntary Health Association of Assam and the Assam Chapter of the Confederation of NGOs in Rural India. I do believe that Rajivji would have been mightily pleased to see such a noble man, serving the cause of understanding and reconciliation, being honoured in his name. I compliment the jury for their wise choice for the Rajiv Gandhi Sadbhavana Award this year. I have great pleasure in congratulating Hembhai and wishing him good health, happiness and many many more years of dedicated service to the welfare of our people."
