"I am delighted to be here today with His Excellency Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his high- powered delegation. Prime Minister Abe's visit to India soon after my own visit to Japan in December, 2006 reflects the vitality and intensity of Indo-Japan relations in recent years.	We have had very fruitful and intensive discussions. As major countries in Asia, we share common values and have a common responsibility to ensure the peace and prosperity of our region.  	We deeply appreciate the words of friendship that Prime Minister Abe expressed during his address to our Parliament earlier today.  	We have today agreed to lay down a Roadmap to impart a new dimension to our strategic and global partnership.  This is a comprehensive and forward-looking vision of how our two countries can and ought to move ahead in the coming years.Economic partnership is at the core of our engagement.  We have set a target for bilateral trade of US$ 20 billion by 2010. A Working Group is to be set up to explore collaboration in setting up a new IIT. We have also agreed to cooperate in the implementation of two important flagship projects - the Dedicated Rail Freight Corridor Project and the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project. When implemented, these projects will be shining symbols of our bilateral cooperation. We had very productive discussions on global and regional issues and this reflects our growing mutual understanding and convergence of interests. 	The signing of a Joint Statement on Enhancement of Cooperation in Environment Protection and Energy Security reflects an important new area of cooperation. We appreciate Prime Minister Abe's initiative on climate change as a contribution to the global debate on the subject. Equally, for us, it is important to ensure energy security so that we can sustain strong growth rates and eradicate poverty.  We welcome Japanese participation in our energy sector.  	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for the assistance, which Japan has been providing to India's developmental efforts. Your strong personal commitment to the strengthening of our partnership is a source of inspiration to us.  Let me extend to you once again a very warm welcome, and request you to say a few words.	Thank you."
