"I join all of you in complimenting the four distinguished Members of Parliament who have been selected for the Best Parliamentarians Awards. I am sure all of you will agree that each one of them deserves the award given the important contribution they have made, over the years, to the proceedings in Parliament and various walks of national life. They have done so both from the Treasury benches as well as from the Opposition. I am naturally delighted that three of the four awardees today are members of my Cabinet. I can vouch for the fact that they have not only contributed handsomely to the proceedings in Parliament, but also to the functioning of our Government. Sharad Pawarji has been a valued colleague, an experienced and mature guide and a steadfast ally for many many years. Shri Chidambaram is an extremely gifted, talented and hard working member of my Cabinet who has contributed enormously to the implementation of our policies. Shri Mani Shankar Aiyar has been an energetic spokesman of the third tier of democracy in this first tier reminding us that decentralization of power and development is essential for the success of our democracy. Smt. Sushma Swaraj is not just a vocal Member of the Opposition but has been an effective Minister in the previous Government. All of them are not just good Parliamentarians but also have proved to be good administrators. Each one of them in their own rights has been a role model. This year we celebrate the 60th anniversary of our Independence. It is no mean achievement that our system of parliamentary democracy has withstood not just the test of time but also the test of our people's faith and conviction. We have much to be proud of. And the success of democratic institutions in India today gives hope to countries all over the world. I recall the words of President Hamid Karzai when I had visited Afghanistan some two years ago. President Karzai, in a public address, had said, "India has more than a billion people with different cultures, religions and languages. By facilitating participation from the people, India has been able to make a stable and pluralistic democracy a reality for Indians. Asian and African countries in general and Afghanistan in particular can learn much from the rich experience of India". Such is the importance of the example that we set for the future of democracy not just here in our country but across the world at large. I therefore, hope that each one of our Members of Parliament will reflect on the role that they can individually and collectively play in strengthening this great institution of democracy. In concluding, I call upon our parliamentarians, particularly our younger colleagues, to strive for the very high standards of debate and discussion that have been set by our Outstanding Parliamentarians. It is in this hallowed fountainhead of our democracy that the hopes and aspirations of our people find their highest expression. We owe it to those who have sent us here to do our very best."
