"I am truly delighted to associate myself with the release of this loving book on the late Sunil Dutt and Nargis Dutt - a book that is a labour of love and a symbol of affection, respect and gratitude. I compliment young Namrata and Priya and Sanjay Dutt for this unique tribute to the memory of their beloved parents, SunilDutt ji and Nargis ji. This is a historic day when we celebrate the life and work of two outstanding personalities of our time and I am very happy to have this opportunity to associate myself with this function.Shri Sunil Dutt and Smt Nargis Dutt were in every sense of the term extraordinary individuals. They were true professionals, humane and at the same time human. They were true citizens of our Republic, patriotic and secular and deeply committed to the value system inhabited by us through our freedom struggele. They were public-spirited artists, tremendously creative and tremendously concerned. I salute their memory.Their life and work meant a lot not only for the world of cinema but also for the cause of nation building, at a particularly important moment in our history after independence. Both of them ruled the hearts and minds of our people with their captivating charm and calibre as artists. They cast a spell on several generations and their romance and love touched every one of their innumerable fans across the country and indeed outside our country. The film that brought Sunil Dutt and Nargisji together was in itself a milestone in the history of Indian cinema - Mother India. This immortal film brought them together and became the bedrock of their marriage. Mother India was a turning point in their lives, in the history of Indian cinema and, indeed, in the life of our young nation. Mother India reflected the determination of a young newly independent nation to stand firmly on its feet and overcome adversity - as so aptly put in the song Dukh bhare din beete re bhaiyya. Their coming together as Mr. & Mrs. Dutt, in 1958 made them a loving symbol of our composite culture. It affirmed the unity of religions, the coexistence of diverse approaches and most importantly, the harmony of outlook and perspectives in this diverse society and nation that India is. It is rare to find a couple whose life of romance, love and exceptional artistic accomplishments was so deeply influenced by their larger vision of India. In fact, it became the guiding factor in the life of both Sunil & Nargis Dutt. The Ajanta Troupe established by them went to remote frontiers to entertain our brave men in uniform defending the frontiers of our nation. To think about others and care for the underprivileged was their abiding and overriding concern. Nargisji used to visit hospitals, especially cancer hospitals, to help those ailing from cancer. She also was the founder, if I am correct of the Spastic Society and the excellent work that society is doing owes a great deal to the pioneering zeal of Nargisji. Later, when she herself became a cancer - patient and was treated abroad, she wanted something to be done for those who could not afford costly treatment outside India.Both of them played a very important role in our parliamentary life. Nargisji was an active member of the Rajya Sabha and Dutt Saheb was, till his last breath, a true soldier of the Congress Party. When Rajiv Gandhiji invited him to contest the Lok Sabha elections, Dutt Saheb had said "I thought it would be a good launching pad to express my thinking about India's unity". His historic march from Mumbai to Amritsar in 1987 to promote the cause of communal harmony and his invaluable work for riot victims, brought out what he and Mrs. Dutt stood for till the very end of their lives. Given the deep commitment of Nargisji to our celebrated values of secularism, communal harmony and social justice, it is only appropriate that the Award for Best Feature Film on National Integration is named after her. This Award recognizes excellence in cinematic efforts in promoting values that are the building blocks of our nationhood. I was privileged to have Dutt Saheb as a colleague in my Cabinet and I worked very closely with him when Soniaji asked him to head the Sadbhavna Ke Sipahi. He was deeply and passionately committed to the promotion of sports and the overall development of our youth. I compliment Namrata and Priya for carrying forward the mission of their public spirited parents. I particularly congratulate Priya Dutt for donning her father's mantle and representing her father's constituency in our Lok Sabha. The mission to finish the unfinished task of Mr & Mrs Dutt rests on these young dynamic shoulders. I hope this book will inspire its readers and give them a feel of the extra-ordinary lives of two great souls. Film artists have a unique place in our country and can play a very constructive role in national development and in promoting national integration. Few in any walk of life have the kind of mass following that popular artists command. Their public adulation can be put to good use, to national benefit, if our film stars inspire our youth to greater effort, to live by the ideals of our Republic and the values of our society and civilization. Sunil Dutt and Nargis Dutt symbolized this public spiritedness of our film personalities. This manifested itself not just in their movies, but also in their life and public service outside the world of cinema. I hope this book will inspire a new generation of film personalities to think beyond their daily work and think about how they can contribute to processes of nation building and to the cause of national integration. I once again compliment Namrata, Priya and Sanjay. Each has tried to live up to their parents hopes and aspirations in their own way. I wish them all a long and fruitful life of solid personal fulfillment and outstanding public service."
