"I will be visiting Nigeria at the invitation of His Excellency President Alhaji Umaru Musa Yar'Adua. Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa. It plays a leadership role in West Africa and within the African Union. It is an active member of the Commonwealth, NAM, G-77 and the UN. It is also a member of the Organisation of Islamic Conference. India's relations with Nigeria are historic and broad-ranging in nature. As two developing countries with a similar historical experience, we face common challenges of nation-building. Our relationship is marked by a convergence of interests and reflects our mutual commitment to South-South Cooperation. A vibrant Indian community in Nigeria contributes to the socio-economic development of Nigeria. I look forward to the opportunity of addressing the Joint Session of the National Assembly of Nigeria. I regard this as a great honour to India. My journey to Nigeria signifies India's desire to reinvigorate its ties not only with our friend and brother Nigeria, but also the continent of Africa. There is much that India and Africa have to do together for the betterment of our peoples. I also look forward to participating in the second India-Brazil-South. Africa (lSSA) Summit which is being hosted by President Thabo Mbeki in South Africa. The ISSA process has matured over time. It symbolises the coming together of like-minded countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America for the good of humankind. The Summit has a rich agenda. It will be preceded by an Academic Seminar, a Business Seminar, a Women's Forum and a Parliamentary Forum. Along with the leaders of Brazil and South Africa, I hope to review the substantial progress that has been made in expanding our trilateral cooperation, which now covers a wide range of activities. I expect the Summit to lead to concrete outcomes on both global and trilateral issues. I look forward to the opportunity of separately meeting President Mbeki and President Lula. India enjoys close and warm relations with South Africa and Brazil, which I will seek to further strengthen".
