The importance of social development was recognized by us as far back as in the Brasilia Declaration of 2003. Subsequently, we had constituted a Working Group on Social Development. We had also decided that the IBSA Fund for Alleviation of Poverty and Hunger will work in close cooperation with this Working Group. In addition, other Working Groups have been established on subjects like education, health, culture, human settlement, environment and skills development. Most recently, we have also set up a Women's Forum. South Africa recently hosted a seminar of practitioners to exchange experiences on our respective social development strategies. Social development has both national and international dimensions. An effective Social Development strategy has to ensure synergy between these two dimensions. It is a happy coincidence that it was South Africa that hosted the World Summit on Social Development in 2002. We thus have a rich menu of political declarations and initiatives.The question is what we - as India, Brazil and South Africa - can bring to the table based on our own real life experiences. We are pluralistic democracies, developing economies and aspire for rapid economic growth. I am aware of President Lula's Bolsa Familia programme and President Mbeki's programme for Accelerated Skill Development. India's current 11th Five Year Plan has been formulated on the basis of a political mandate for inclusive growth. Based on this vision of an equitable and prosperous world, we have in the last few years, put in place programmes which can accelerate the processes of development in an equitable, fair and all-encompassing manner. Based on our common experiences, I would like to suggest that a Social Development Strategy could emerge from the IBSA process having some of the following eight elements:Rapid Economic Growth: It is only within the framework of a rapidly expanding economy can we generate the necessary resources for investing in social development. We have to have faith in the creativity and enterprise of our people and create favourable conditions for these to have full play.Inclusivity: Economic growth cannot happen in isolation. Unless all sections of society derive benefits from such growth and develop a stake in the growth process, we will courting social and political instability. Disparities of any type - regional, gender, inter-community, inter-group - harm the growth process in the long run. However, addressing this aspect is easier said than done. All of us have diverse experiences which we need to share and learn from. Human Resource Development: While growth processes may be favourable, it is essential that people are empowered and enabled to become active participants in these processes. The key to this is education and skill development. Adequate resources need to be committed to education and skill development at all levels. Focus on equitable infrastructure: Often, the infrastructure needs of the poor are neglected. But they are important facilitators of growth. There must be adequate investment in rural infrastructure and connectivity, clean drinking water, sanitation facilities, health care and social welfare. Short term distress mitigation: While most social development investments pay off in the medium term, the problems of unemployment and threatened livelihoods need to be addressed in the short term. Focused employment generation programmes linked to food security initiatives can provide immediate relief and succour.Grassroots Institution Building: There is a need to ensure participatory democracy and effective governance at local levels. These institutions facilitate ownership of governance processes and social and economic mobility. Civil society action must be encouraged. Environmentally sound strategies: Any growth strategy should be designed to minimize its adverse environmental effects. The world cannot sustain highly consumptive societies on the pattern of some of the developed economies. We need to search for more sustainable alternatives for the good of all. Integration into the Knowledge Economy: As the world advances into the knowledge era, education, skills and access to knowledge become key drivers of development. We need conscious efforts to ensure that all sections are in a position to participate in this transition - which takes us back to the need for human development. I would like to see IBSA mechanisms taking concrete steps to translate some of these principles into action through collaborative effort. We could consider some joint initiatives on some of these elements as well.
