"I am very pleased to join my distinguished colleague and good friend, the Prime Minister of Singapore, in welcoming you to this extraordinary exhibition on Nalanda. I extend a special welcome to the leaders of the European Union present here. We seek your support in making the initiative on Nalanda a success. The Nalanda University was a part of the intellectual life of Asia for over seven centuries. It was one of the first great Universities in recorded history, and one of the world's first residential universities. The university was an architectural masterpiece, attracting students from China, Japan, Korea, Persia and Turkey. Through the exchange of scholars and the spread of ideas, the University made an invaluable contribution to international understanding. Earlier today, we have discussed our collective efforts to revive the Nalanda University as a centre of cross-cultural understanding and learning. There is much we can learn from each other. We recognize the contribution of the Mentor Group, whose recommendations provide a roadmap to recreating a unique international institution and preserving a common cultural heritage. Nalanda will focus on becoming a centre for excellence for research and teaching with an emphasis on postgraduate studies. It will have departments for philosophy and Buddhist studies, regional history, business and management studies, international relations and peace studies and study of languages. It will be established as an international university through an international treaty. This Exhibition has recreated the spiritual and physical splendour of Nalanda. It comprises 116 of the most precious art objects from four prestigious Museums in India, which have been specially sent to Singapore. The artifacts include rare paintings and bronze and stone sculptures. There are great masterpieces like the Nalanda Copper Plate, depicting the royal patronage to the Nalanda University, and the Sacred Relics of the Buddha himself. The Exhibition covers all the eight important events of Buddha's life, which relate to the eight important Buddhist pilgrimage sites in India. By doing so, it brings to life Buddha's message of compassion, tolerance and contentment. It is a poignant reminder of the rich cultural heritage of our region. The Exhibition truly brings a very memorable day to a most appropriate conclusion. The Third East Asia Summit has emerged as an important forum for dialogue on issues of common interest and concern. The EAS process is an ideal vehicle for promoting peace, stability and economic prosperity in East Asia." The promotion of greater people-to-people contacts and cultural understanding is one of its important objectives. This Exhibition will go a long way in achieving this goal. I would like to convey our sincere gratitude to the Government of Singapore for seeking to recapture the spirit of Nalanda and the Asian Civilisations Museum for making it a reality."
