Speech in HindiToday is a historical day. We are celebrating the 15th anniversary of our Panchayati Raj. Thousands of elected Panchayati Raj leaders from all over the country have been invited to Delhi for the first time. I am happy to welcome all of you. Our aim is to take the voice of the common man from the Panchayat to the Prime Minister.	Mahatma Gandhi had a vision of an India where people of the villages would have self-government (Gram Swaraj). Shri Rajiv Gandhi gave shape to this idea of Gram Swaraj. He had a vision of according a prominent role to the Panchayati Raj in the process of social change. Rajivji gave a legal status to the vision of Mahatma Gandhi. Since the last 15 years, we have been strengthening the roots of democracy by following his footsteps.	During the last 4 years, the UPA Government has focused its attention towards rural India. The main objective of our Government is to build an inclusive society where there would be no discrimination between regions and society. We have to remove the gap between rural and urban India, between the rich and the poor, between educated and uneducated, and between strong and the weak. The struggle started by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru after Independence to eradicate poverty, illiteracy and disease is continuing even today.	Since our Government has come to power, we have increased by four times the expenditure on village development and welfare & poverty alleviation programmes for the people living in rural areas.	We have started many programmes like - National Employment Guarantee Act, Bharat Nirman, National Rural Health Mission, etc. We must collectively ensure that the unprecedented quantum of money being spent on these programmes gives better results. It will be our endeavour to strengthen the role of Panchayati Raj institutions in the programmes of the Central Government.	Panchayats have been empowered to implement the Rural Electrification Programme started through the Rajiv Gandhi Electrification Scheme. The Backward Region Grant Fund Programme provides for the panchayats to evolve their own developmental schemes.	Panchayats play an important role in the management of local schools under the Education for All Campaign. Through these efforts, we have been able to open schools in almost all inhabited parts of the country. We have started the mid?day meal scheme across the country and the panchayats are playing an important role in its implementation.	I believe that more attention needs to be given to the Nutritive Food Programme. We must also include local Panchayats in Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS).	In our Constitution system, each and every level has to play its role. These levels are ? Centre, States and Panchayats. The implementation of programmes must be done at the level, which can effectively manage it. Most of our development works can be carried out in a better way at the local level.	That is why we are giving importance to the direct partnership of Panchayats in the management of our programmes of education, sanitation, health, etc.	The most historical decision the Government has ever taken in the field of rural development is the passing of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Under the Act, rural workers have got the legal right to employment for the first time. The entire country has been covered under this programme from 1st April 2008. This will increase food and employment security in villages.	Panchayats play a prominent role in works of the projects under this programme. The work of implementing this programme is in the hands of the Panchayat. The leaders of Panchayats have to implement as well as monitor the programmes. Rupees 10,000 crores have been spent through panchayats within 2 years of implementation of this programme.	The Constitution clearly mentions that State Governments and State Legislatures are fully responsible for setting up of Panchayati Raj. States have their own circumstances and compulsions. Hence, during the last 15 years, different States have adopted different ways to strengthen Panchayati Raj institutions. There are some States that have implemented this to a large extent, while some States have to do much more in this regard. This matter needs discussion.	Today we can assert it with a great sense of pride that there are approximately 2.5 lakh local units in the country and we have sent a strong army of 32 lakh representatives to it. Representatives from SC & ST communities enjoy an equal share of responsibility in their working.	Our great success in this field has been the number of women representatives that outnumber the sum total of elected women representatives all over the world. Political and Social Empowerment of Indian women is the greatest success of Panchayati Raj. It is unique in world history and in the modern era.	I am extremely happy today that on this historical occasion, Mrs. Sonia Gandhi ji is going to release an Experts Report on Women Empowerment in Panchayats.	As per the Right to Information Act, every common citizen is entitled to get information from the Government. To curb corruption the Gram Sabha should be given full information which should include information on resources deployed for works and their use.	Training is also needed.  It is not an easy job to impart training to lacs of representatives and keep them apprised of the information on a variety of matters.  With the help of modern state of the art technology this can be made easy. Under the National E-governance Scheme, computer facilities should be provided to each Panchayat Ghar. I am happy that an Expert Report has been given to the Government to accomplish this work in a time bound manner. It is under consideration. We will soon embark on this new programme.	We will consider your recommendations on improvement of the Panchayati Raj system. We would like to assure you that the Union Cabinet would consider fully your suggestions. We would decide as to what type of changes can be made in the programmes of the Centre and states so that Panchayats could be involved fully in the progress of the nation. A primary objective of the Eleventh Five Year Plan is to involve every citizen in the development of the country. We would consider your recommendations in the Panchayat Ministers' Committee and the National Development Council (NDC).	Every citizen, whether he is poor or rich, should be given a chance to build his future through Panchayati Raj. This would make India not only the largest democracy of the world but also the most functioning democracy of the world.	This is the way that would make every citizen prosperous. When this prosperity reaches the home and heart of every Indian, only then the dream of Rajiv ji would come true.	Jai Hind!
