Every year on this day, we celebrate the birth anniversary of our former Prime Minister and beloved leader Shri Rajiv Gandhi. Shri Rajiv Gandhi assumed the responsibility of leading the nation when it was facing one of its worst crises, following the assassination of Shrimati Indira Gandhi. He displayed extraordinary courage in confronting the spiraling cycle of violence and terrorism and restoring peace and sanity. He fought valiantly against the forces of hatred by promoting peace and goodwill.  It is a fitting tribute to his memory that the Sadbhavana award has been instituted in his name. The award is given to distinguished persons who have devoted their life to fostering amity, understanding and social harmony.  The recipient of this year's award is Professor N. Radhakrishnan who has engaged himself in a wide variety of activities for promoting communal harmony, peace and goodwill.  I extend my hearty congratulations to him for having been chosen by the distinguished jury for this prestigious award.  Friends, the culture of Sadbhavana is the foundation of our civilization. It is nourished equally by all our different faiths. The father of our nation, Mahatma Gandhi, lay down his life for it.  This tradition of Sadbhavna faces a grave challenge today.   The divisive  forces  at  work seek to  challenge the very essence of India.  Shri  Rajiv Gandhi led our nation in the pursuit of tolerance and good will among our people. He was the quintessential embodiment of Sadbhavana in the tradition that Gandhiji set for public leadership in this country. His message becomes most relevant at this time when we once again confront forces trying to spread hatred and disharmony.  He squarely faced the mounting threat to our unity and integrity by mobilizing people on the strength of Sadbhavana. He relied on methods of dialogue and reconciliation to defeat the forces of hatred and violence. He took bold measures to restore peace and harmony in some of the strife-torn parts of our country notably in Punjab, Assam and Mizoram. His words, "tolerance, coexistence, interaction, enrichment are what will give our system strength" underline his vision of promoting understanding and fellow feeling among our people.  Shri Rajiv Gandhi's life and work will continue to inspire our people for generations to come.Sadbhavana as a message is both locally and globally more relevant today than ever before.  The recipient of the 16th Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award Professor  N. Radhakrishnan has dedicated his life in promoting the ideas and ideals of Mahatma Gandhi. His work is in consonance with the vision of Shri Rajiv Gandhi and the everlasting principles of Sadbhavana.  In the true lineage of the Gandhian tradition, Professor Radhakrishnan undertook the task of organizing and institutionalizing the Shanti Sena programme at the Gandhigram University.  He has carried his work into the field in the naxalite affected Dharmapuri district.  He has worked to restore peace in areas characterized by communal tensions and conflicts in Tamilnadu and Kerala. He has  mobilized youth for creative social reconstruction in Hoshiarpur in Punjab, Tripura and Assam.    As the Director of Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti for more than a decade he was instrumental in introducing many innovative programmes in educational institutions for educating younger generations about Gandhian values.  He is now leading a campaign called "Himsamukth Bharat Andolan" which motivates families to become foot soldiers in a campaign for peace and sustainable development.  Conflicts need to end first in the minds of men and be replaced with sadbhavana.  Professor Radhakrishnan has continually kept this message of Gandhiji alive.  It is extremely appropriate that a person like Professor Radhakrishnan, known for his unwavering commitment to sadbhavana is being honoured for keeping the lamp of peace and harmony lit in our midst. With so much violence and conflict all over the world, it is important that we keep invoking the spirit of Sadbhavana that Professor Radhakrishnan exemplifies through his life and work.  India has always respected men and women of peace.  Only those who have promoted healing have ever claimed the heart of this country.   It is a matter of great happiness for all of us that this year's Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award is being conferred upon a man of peace and social harmony like Professor Radhakrishnan. I convey my greetings and good wishes to Professor Radhakrishnan.  May his tribe flourish.Thank You.
