"I am delighted to be here today in this function to honour some of our outstanding citizens and dedicated organizations for their contribution to communal harmony and national integration. I extend my heartiest congratulations to Shri Ram Puniyani and Dr. Dominic Emmanuel, recipients of the National Communal Harmony Awards in the individual category and to the Setu Charitable Trust and Anjuman Sari-e-Gul Faroshan recipients in the organization category. I also warmly congratulate the awardees of the Kabir Puraskar - Shri Khalifa Gufran, Shri Abdul Gani Abdullabhai Qureshi and Shri Ghulam Ahmad Bhat. The National Communal Harmony Award honours outstanding contribution of individuals/organizations to the cause of communal harmony and national integration. It recognizes efforts made to motivate and mobilize the civil society in defence of secular human values, communal good-will and national togetherness. The Kabir Puraskar recognizes physical or moral courage and humanity exhibited by members of one community in saving the life and property of members of another community. It captures the moral message and the practical vision of inter faith harmony as exemplified, nearly six hundred years ago, in the life and work of Saint Kabir. The ideal of humanism is the core of Kabir's teachings. His numerous verses, Dohas and hymns draw upon the spirituality of both Hinduism and Islam. They have deeply moved ordinary men and women over the centuries and inspired them to live in peace and harmony with one another. The distinguished awardees of today have dedicated themselves to the cherished ideals of communal harmony and religious tolerance that define India's ancient culture and civilization. The Kabir Puraskar awardees have exhibited courage of the highest order, coming to the rescue of others selflessly and even at a risk to their own lives. I can say with conviction that India needs many more men and women like those whose work we are recognizing and honouring today. India has been home to all the great religions of the world. While some were born here, others took root in this ancient land of ours. The sub-continent has for centuries provided a unique social and intellectual environment in which many distinct religions have not only co-existed peacefully but have also enriched each other. It is the sacred duty of each one of us to carry forward this great tradition. I believe that both the government and civil society groups must continuously watch and raise our voice against groups and individuals who use violence in the name of religion. No religion sanctions violence. No religion preaches hatred. No religion endorses animosity towards another human being. Those who use religious symbols and forums to talk of violence, sectarianism and discord cannot be said to be true spokesperson of their respective religion. However, we also know that all societies, including ours, have to contend with such preachers of disharmony and disagreement. That is why it is all the more important to recognize and applaud those - like today's distinguished award winners - who work selflessly for communal harmony and national integration. It is our obligation to nurture such voices of sanity. I am sure that today's awardees will continue to strengthen India's great tradition of communal harmony and religious tolerance, and will inspire others to deeds of selfless service. I salute them and congratulate them once again. May God bless them in all they do."
