"Every year on this auspicious day we honour the memory of a young and inspirational Prime Minister who wanted to build a new India free from the fear of want and exploitation. It was Shri Rajiv Gandhi who gave a call to build an India united by bonds transcending caste, creed and region; and an India that was a powerful force for peace and amity in the world at large. His indomitable spirit and tireless zeal envisioned an India of the 21st Century where narrow divisions would be broken down by economic progress and social freedom. The Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award is a tribute to this vision of a strong, self-confident and self-reliant India. In conferring the Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award on Gautam Bhai of Paunar Ashram, we commend his life's work in promoting these very values that were so dear to Rajivji. Gautam Bhai comes from a family of nation builders. He is a descendant of Shri Jamnalal Bajaj whose selfless contribution to the freedom struggle was a source of inspiration for him and for many Indians of that generation. At the age of twelve, Gautam Bhaiji left school to join Acharya Vinoba Bhaveji's Bhoodan movement. The Bhoodan movement was in many ways a revolutionary movement inspired by the values of non-violence and righteous behaviour. Acharya Vinoba Bhaveji's aim was not only to empower the landless but also to bring about a change of heart in the land owners by appealing to their moral conscience. In his work, Gautam Bhai got inspired by the Constructive Programme initiated by Mahatma Gandhi. Many of the key aspects of this Programme such as abolition of untouchability, communal harmony, rural sanitation and economic equality are all aspects of the larger meaning of Sadbhavana. Inspired by these ideals and values, Gautam Bhai has made a powerful contribution to carry forward the historic legacy of Acharya Vinoba Bhaveji. The inspiration of these great leaders that led common people to do uncommon acts of good is exemplified by an incident that Gautam Bhai recalls during the Bhoodan Movement. A poor man who had hardly half an acre of land wanted to donate a portion of it to someone who had no land at all. Gautam Bhai recalls how the poor but kindly man was advised not to donate from the little land that he had. But the man was insistent that he would do his bit for the cause of the movement. Eventually his persistence prevailed. It was an inspiring story of sacrifice that epitomised the spirit of the Bhoodan Movement. I wonder whether this example is relevant today at a time when social conflicts are deepening over land, water and natural resources. But it reminds us that there was a time when the greater good of the community and the country took precedence over personal greed and avarice. We should question whether our current lifestyles and value systems are sustainable if we are to live in harmony with nature and at peace with ourselves. Shri Rajiv Gandhi would have been proud that today's Award is being conferred on a humanist, who embodies in his work the values of peace, tolerance and harmony that were so dear to Rajivji. We need many more people like Gautam Bhai in our public life, who can inspire our citizens to break down the barriers that divide us and cement the bonds that unite us. I congratulate Gautam Bhaiji for winning this prestigious Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award. I wish him many more years of productive service in the noble work that he is doing and has been doing in promoting the cause of Sadbhavana."
