	"It is indeed a pious and historic day. We are observing Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary as well as the Golden Jubilee of Panchayati Raj Institutions. 50 years ago, on this date, the first Prime Minister of the country, Jawaharlal Nehruji had laid the foundation for Panchayati Raj Institutions. It gives me immense pleasure to be amongst the representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions at the National Convention and I welcome you all. I congratulate my colleague and Panchayati Raj Minister, Shri C.P. Joshi for organising this conference.
	 
	Panchayati Raj Institutions need to play a pivotal role in the nation's development. Peoples' participation is a must to implement the Government's programmes and schemes in a transparent and effective manner and this can be ensured only by the Panchayati Raj institutions. In a vast country like India, we can reach out to the people only through decentralisation and the panchayati raj institutions are an effective instrument.
	 
	Based on the initiatives of late Shri Rajiv Gandhi, a legal framework was provided to the panchayati raj institutions. The 73rd amendment of the Constitution provides that the State legislatures should empower panchayati raj institutions as the institutions of Local Self Government and strengthen them so that they can evolve schemes for social justice and economic development. But these legal provisions have not been used effectively in our country till date. Even today in many States, the functions, the funds and functionaries have not been delegated effectively to the panchayti raj institutions. We need to reform the system.
	 
	Central Government has to play a major role in the effective functioning of panchayati raj institutions. Implementation of NREGA by the panchayati raj institutions is one such example. Although there may be initial hurdles while delegating new responsibilities to the panchayati raj institutions, it is my firm belief, that the outcome will be fruitful and in the interest of the country.
	 
	We have to strive continuously to make panchayati raj institutions an effective instrument. With the proper training to the PRI representatives in the implementation and monitoring of schemes, accounting and information technology etc., these institutions can play a major role as the units of decentralised governance in a more effective manner. In addition, there is a need to provide basic facilities to these institutions.
	 
	I am happy that the year 2009-10 is being observed as the "Year of Gram Sabha". Gram Sabha is a forum which provides a direct participation to the people in democracy. The people of the village get an opportunity through the Gram Sabha to discuss, deliberate, accept or reject the proposals of Gram Panchayat.
	 
	I am also pleased that the Union Cabinet yesterday has decided to change the name of National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). Mahatma Gandhi gave more emphasis on Gram Swaraj. To name NREGA after him, is a humble tribute from us to the Father of the Nation.
	 
	Once again I welcome you all at this important conference. I hope that the deliberations at this conference would help in empowering the panchayati raj institutions. PRIs are the means to fulfil the dreams of Gram Swaraj of Mahatma Gandhi. Come, let us pledge together for an all-out effort to make PRIs more powerful and effective."
