It is a great privilege for me to be present on the occasion of the award of the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development to Her Excellency Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.Ladies and Gentlemen,	Smt. Indira Gandhi was not only a great national leader but also a great internationalist. She spent her lifetime championing the cause of developing countries and fighting for justice and equality in international affairs. She had a deeply held belief in India's destiny and its place in the world. 	Yet no cause was dearer to Indiraji than the emergence of a strong and prosperous South Asia on the world scene. She was an ardent advocate of peace and development in the region. Her empathy and unwavering support for justice and what is right defined her attitude to the people of Bangladesh. 	It is therefore fitting that this year's Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development is being awarded to an outstanding political figure of South Asia. Prime Minister Hasina has worked tirelessly through her political career for the welfare and socio-economic development of the people of Bangladesh; but she has been an equally tireless proponent of regional peace, security and progress.   Ladies and Gentlemen,	Ever since her return to Bangladesh in 1981, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has played a catalytic role in the emergence of Bangladesh as a dynamic and strong nation. Her journey has not been smooth, yet every challenge has spurred her on to even greater heights.  She has earned the love and affection of the people of Bangladesh for her selfless service to a great nation and its great people.  	Bangladesh's return to democracy owes a great deal to Prime Minister Hasina's courage, sacrifice and unshakeable belief in the will of the people. As a democracy ourselves, we know that it is a form of governance which is not easy. It requires constant nurturing. It needs wisdom and forbearance. It requires the capacity to manage differences and the willingness to respect them. By championing the cause of democracy and pluralism, Prime Minister Hasina has given the people of Bangladesh the means to realize their true potential and strengthen peace and harmony in the country.  	Prime Minister Hasina led her Party, the Awami League, to a resounding victory in the parliamentary elections in 2008.  This is her second term as Prime Minister. In the short period that she has been in office, she has already outlined an ambitious vision for her country. Her "Vision 2021" seeks to transform Bangladesh by reducing poverty, ensuring access to basic needs and undertaking developmental activities in the agricultural and rural sectors. 	As part of achieving the Millennium Development Goals, Prime Minister Hasina has paid particular attention to building on Bangladesh's success in removing gender disparity in enrollment of boys and girls in primary and secondary schools. She herself manifests the emancipation of women in Bangladesh and their determination to be equal partners in shaping their country's future.  	One of the Prime Minister's primary concerns has been food security. She has sought a global agreement for development of agriculture, and attainment of food self-sufficiency in developing countries, particularly the Least Developed Countries. She has spoken passionately on behalf of developing countries threatened by climate change and worked to build global consensus on the need to tackle the problem.   	Bangladesh has earned international recognition for its successful efforts at improving its social indicators, and empowering the poor through a mix of well targeted policy initiatives. 	Today, Bangladesh's voice is heard with respect in international forums. Speaking at the United Nations General Assembly last year, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said, and I quote: "At present we are witnessing a rapidly changing world whether be it in the form of climate change, economic turmoil, or terrorism. It is crystal clear to those who wish to open their eyes that we all belong to a global village where we must live and work together. Indeed, our lives and our world are intertwined. I, therefore, call upon all to discard short-sighted discords, and adopt a common resolve in facing today's grim challenges". 	This vision of international cooperation would have been very dear to Indiraji's heart and she would have heartily endorsed the honour being conferred today on Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.Ladies and Gentlemen,	Today we honour not just a great daughter of Bangladesh but a distinguished world leader. On behalf of the Government and people of India, I congratulate Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on receiving this prestigious award. I reiterate our commitment to work together with the Government and people of Bangladesh to shape a brighter future for our people and to enhance their common prosperity and development.  	Thank you.
