"I am very happy to release this stamp in commemoration of the life and work of Janab Syed Mohammed Ali Shihab Thangal on his first death anniversary.
	 
	Janab Thangal was a great son of Kerala. He was an influential spiritual leader and a widely respected politician, leading the Kerala State Muslim League for more than three decades. As a political leader he contributed to the first successful experiment of coalition politics in India in the form of the Congress - IUML combine.
	 
	Janab Thangal's genius was versatile. Apart from having a deep knowledge of Arabic Linguistics, he was known for his scholarship of the Sufi traditions, which represent the best of our composite culture. Thangal Saheb personified India's pluralism and commitment to multi-culturalism.
	 
	Though a great religious leader, Thangal Saheb will long be remembered as the voice of democratic secular principles and a practitioner of secular solidarity. During the difficult period of country-wide communal unrest in 1992, his appeal for peace worked wonders in Kerala. All his life, Thangal Saheb furthered the call of communal amity through his speeches and writings.
	 
	Thangal Saheb's life and work touched lakhs and lakhs of people. As an educationist, he helped establish and nurtured institutions, often bringing quality education to the most backward parts of Kerala. As a great philanthropist, he contributed immensely to the socio-economic uplift of the poor and the under-privileged.
	 
	The postage stamp that I have just released is a small token of our love and respect for a towering personality of our times. As we celebrate Janab Thangal Saheb's life and work, as we express our gratitude to a great spiritual and political leader, we would do well to remember that the best way to pay tribute to him would be to uphold the values and principles he lived by. The life and teachings of Thangal Saheb will always serve as a beacon, guiding us in our path and helping us strengthen our glorious traditions of tolerance, pluralism and secularism. With these words, I once again express my heartfelt thanks to the organisers of today's function for giving me this opportunity to pay homage to a great son of Kerala, a great spiritual and political leader of our time."
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
	 
