"I would like to compliment the Ministry of Culture, the Archaeological Survey of India and the producers of the book 'Monuments of Delhi' for putting together this excellent publication. Delhi is rapidly transforming into a modern metropolis and the skyline is constantly undergoing change. But we should not forget that Delhi is among the most historic cities in the world. The city's history spans many millennia from early historic times up to the present day. Delhi is better known for its adventures in later periods in Indian history, particularly during the Mughal period. But a Minor Rock Edict of the Ashokan period shows that Delhi was located on the trunk route connecting the main cities of Ancient India in the 3rd century BC. This well illustrated work has been aesthetically designed and produced to provide some interesting glimpses of some of the lesser known, as well as the better known edifices, of Delhi. They include the World Heritage sites, as declared by the UNESCO. Many of these remains are often spoken of as collectively constituting the 'Seven Cities'. The book also contains a wealth of information on historical relics, dating back to the Mauryas, the Guptas, the Rajputs, the Sultanate, the Mughal and the Colonial periods. Out of 174 monuments that are maintained by the ASI in Delhi, this book focuses on 46 monuments that are located within the 'core area' of the Commonwealth Games, which cover the heart of the city. It is rightly said that the city of Delhi is a living museum. We have the obligation to preserve, protect, study and document the rich legacy of one of the great cities of the world. This book will be of use not only to the many visitors who we will welcome shortly to Delhi but to its residents as well. The Ministry of Culture is working on top priority to revitalize the Archaelogical Survey of India so that it becomes an institution of excellence that can manage our historical treasures in a professional and truly imaginative manner. I think there should be more efforts such as the publication of 'Monuments of Delhi' that stimulate public interest in our ancient monuments and in the work of the ASI as well. On the occasion of Commonwealth Games, it gives me great pleasure to release the 'Monuments of Delhi' published by the Archaeological Survey of India."
