I am very happy to have this privilege of participating in the Golden Jubilee celebrations of one of India's premier institutions that the National Defence College is. The National Defence College has shaped the thought processes of many generations of officers of our Armed Forces and Civil Services and has fostered a culture of strategic thinking amongst our policy makers.In many international exchange programmes it has contributed to strengthening understanding and friendship with key partners. The presence of His Majesty the King of Bhutan at the Golden Jubilee celebrations is a matter of great pride for the National Defence College. When we look around us, we find that the world of today is not what it was when this illustrious College was established. A lot has changed, both within our country as well as in the global arena. The role of force, which is the topical subject of this seminar, itself has evolved with time - how we define it, the operating environment in which we use it and its place in our larger strategic calculus. Firstly, the internal and external aspects of national security are getting increasingly inter-linked. Secondly, we must understand the concept of contemporary national security within a wider strategic and economic and social matrix. An enlightened national security policy should therefore be based on a holistic appreciation of the many inter-related aspects and concerns that impinge on a nation's overall wellbeing. These imperatives have not, however, necessarily changed the importance and role of military power as an essential indispensible component of a nation's power and stability. Defence capabilities buttress the ability of a State to defend itself against armed aggression or insurgency. They act as a deterrence to the use of force by others. Despite a complex regional and global environment, India's policies are marked by a sense of responsibility and restraint. India's military spending has been assessed to be below the world average as a percentage of GDP. Nevertheless, our Government of India will not hesitate in ensuring that all necessary resources are provided for meeting our essential national security needs. India has always opposed the unilateral use of force in resolving disputes between States. We have worked consistently for a rule based international order, whether in the field of security, trade or climate change. We have worked to strengthen global security with collective thinking and collective action. Our troop contributions to the United Nations have been noteworthy and have received world wide acclaim. We have been working towards global, universal and non-discriminatory nuclear disarmament and we are for a world free of nuclear weapons. We have consistently advocated the adoption of a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism. Within our country, a new generation is taking charge of its destiny. The desire for change is much more palpable in every village, in every town and in every city. There is a growing sense of impatience with our working methods just as new impulses of growth and social justice are emerging in India's hinterland. The communications and information technology revolutions are upon us and their effects are visible in our daily lives. I am confident that all things being equal, with a predominantly young population we can expect our economic fundamentals to remain strong in the foreseeable future and we have to work to ensure that this outcome indeed becomes a reality. The Indian economy has reverted to its higher growth path. This is important because it is only a rapidly growing economy that can create the wealth we need for redistributive measures and increased public spending on education, health, food security and environmental protection. We have to bring all our resources to bear on tackling the problem of mass poverty in our country. But we also have to use our scarce resources efficiently and give due emphasis to conservation and the management of environment and our biodiversity. This is an area of potential conflict. We have already witnessed wars over oil. The injudicious and inequitable exploitation and distribution of scarce natural resources can sow the seeds of greater conflict among nations and communities in the future and we ought to be aware of these possibilities. Our development ambitions need a favourable external environment. Global interdependence of nations is a growing economic and political reality. It is therefore essential for India to remain actively engaged with the rest of the world so that we can access capital, high technology, energy and knowledge to propel our growth process. However, we have to be conscious that just as military power alone cannot assure national security, growth by itself is not the ultimate answer to the multiple challenges we face as a nation. Our ability to develop at the pace and in the direction that we wish to will depend on how well we are able to maintain the internal stability and cohesion of our country. Naxalism and Left Wing Extremism today pose a great threat to our national security. We recognize that there is a development deficit in all parts of our country. But we should be equally clear that the Indian State cannot and will not allow its authority to be challenged. Our country has been a victim of terrorism for the past more than two decades. Terrorism has been used as a means to destroy the values on which our nation is built. Terrorist groups enjoy patronage and sanctuaries and do not lack in resources. We therefore have to ensure that our capabilities to combat terrorism remain a step ahead of those of the terrorists. They should be left in no doubt whatsoever about our ability and resolve to defeat them. We have to be prepared to deal with threats to our security from non-state actors and groups. The problem of piracy off the coast of Somalia in the Gulf of Aden is a case in point. Non-state actors are becoming increasingly fused and employing the best technologies to target open and democratic societies like ours. We have therefore to modernize our defence doctrines to respond to new and non-traditional threats to our national security. Cyber warfare is an area of emerging concern. I am glad that our Armed Forces and our other agencies are paying increasing attention to building capabilities and expertise in this very essential area. Assuring our energy security is another major challenge. We do not have the luxury of choosing between one source of energy and another. We must keep all options open, including that of the nuclear energy. Till such time as we are dependent on fossil fuels we must have the capability of safeguarding the security of the sea lanes of communication. The bulk of international oil cargoes pass through the Indian Ocean and this therefore happens to be a region of vital interest and concern to us. The scale of social and economic transformation that we seek to achieve for our country is unprecedented. If we succeed in this ambitious enterprise within the framework of an open, democratic and pluralistic society we will I sincerely believe profoundly influence the history of nations in the 21st century. For this to happen, we need peace in our hinterland and in our neighbourhood. We need to strengthen our efforts to make the world a more level playing field. The reality of international relations is that power is unevenly distributed. We should not expect those who have power to willingly part with it. We have therefore to stand up on our own feet to defend the values that define us as a nation. I would like to conclude by placing on record our country's deep appreciation to our gallant Armed Forces for their professionalism, valour and contributions to processes of nation building. The military preparedness and modernization of our Forces are matters of the highest priority for Government.I end by wishing the National Defence College even greater glory in the next half century.
