Over the past four decades, I have had the pleasure of visiting Japan on several occasions and in various capacities.  Each time I have experienced the friendship and warmth of the people of Japan.As Prime Minister, I have been privileged to witness the steady transformation of India's relations with Japan. The Strategic and Global Partnership established between India and Japan continues to grow and holds tremendous potential to bring greater prosperity and progress to our two nations. 	I am particularly happy to be here in this new and modern premises of the Chancery.  This project is one of our most ambitious embassy construction projects overseas and it is fitting that it should be in the city of Tokyo.  	I am extremely happy to see so many of my dear friends in the gathering this morning. I would like to pay tribute to the leadership of former Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori whose strong personal commitment helped open a new chapter in bilateral ties a decade ago.  The Japan-India Association has been in the forefront of promoting friendship and closer ties between our countries for over a century.  I would like to thank former Prime Minister Mr. Yasuo Fukuda, Acting President of Japan-India Parliamentary Friendship League for his important role in building a broad-based political consensus on strengthening of India-Japan ties among members of the Japanese Diet. I express my gratitude to former Prime Minister Mr. Shinzo Abe for being here this morning.  It was under his leadership that we established our Strategic and Global Partnership in 2006.  I am grateful to Mr.  Katsuya Okada for his Party's support to India-Japan relations. 	I am overwhelmed by your presence here this morning and on behalf of the people of India thank you for friendship.  It is because of your collective efforts that we have raised our partnership to unprecedented heights.	I would also take this opportunity to commend the significant contributions of the Indian community in Japan. India takes pride in your achievements and lauds your efforts to build bridges of friendship and understanding between our two countries. 	I look forward to my discussions in Tokyo over the next two days.  I am optimistic that we will make concrete progress in all areas of our cooperation.  This will benefit not only our two countries but also the Asia-Pacific region and the world at large. 	I have great pleasure in dedicating this Chancery building to the Strategic and Global Partnership between India and Japan in the 21st Century.  	Thank you.
