I am happy to have this opportunity to interact with the academic fraternity at Jammu on the occasion of the third Convocation ceremony of this young university.   I congratulate all the scholars and students who have been awarded medals and degrees today.  It is my belief and prayer  that a bright future awaits them all.The role of Science & Technology is critical in guiding the destiny of our nation.   The growth of our economy, the food and nutritional security of our people and the security of our country depend in no small measure on our scientific and technological competence.   The Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology in Jammu has strived over the past decade to strengthen agricultural studies, research and extension work in the region. But I would submit that the role of the university is much larger - to develop in its students a sense of patriotic service, a connection with their communities and its problems and igniting the passion and imagination that all youth are endowed with.    It is a fact that the agricultural economy of the State, on which about 70% of the population is dependent, is not in very good shape. There is low productivity, poor investment and the State has large deficits in the production of cereals, oilseeds, pulses and vegetables. Each of the three regions of the State present challenges of diverse topography and agro-ecosystems. The challenge before policy-makers and agriculture scientists is thus to evolve appropriate area-specific strategies for increasing production and employment. This university would need to play a vital role in the exploitation of the vast potential of the agriculture-related sectors in the Jammu region. We have to give focussed attention to raising productivity of products that Jammu is known for such as R.S. Pura basmati, Bhaderwahi rajmah, Kishtwari saffron, anardana and Bakarwali goat.  The Government of India had provided this university with an infrastructure grant of Rs 68 crore which I hope has been well utilized. It gives me great pleasure to announce a further grant of Rs 32 crore to the university.   The Government of India is willing to do much more than it has to develop the agricultural sector in the State. We have to work on several areas at the same time. These include scientific methods for enhancing productivity, post-harvest technology, credit support and market access to farmers.  The Government of India is providing assistance to the State to address these issues through a number of Central schemes. These include the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana and the Horticulture Mission for North East and Himalayan States, which offers liberal outlays for research, farm inputs, mechanisation and processing. The Government of India has recently approved a Central scheme for Economic Revival of Jammu & Kashmir Saffron Sector with an outlay of Rs. 370 crore.  I am happy to tell you that Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts will now be covered under the National Food Security Mission.Recently, the Rangarajan Committee has submitted its jobs plan for the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Report brings out clearly the vast untapped potential for economic activity and employment generation in all three regions of the State. The plan they have suggested has the potential to reach out to nearly 1˝ lakh youth over a three to five year period. This would be done through a two-pronged strategy: kick-starting the growth process in sectors having large employment potential, like information technology, tourism and micro, small and medium enterprises, and launching a human resource development initiative focused on improving skills through improved access to education and focused placement-oriented training.  The response of Indian industry has been encouraging and we will work with all stakeholders to kick-start the economic revival of the State. The Report proposes focused interventions in the poultry, dairy and animal husbandry sectors. It proposes expanding the private para-veterinary scheme of the State government for providing veterinary services and the revival of government sheep breeding farms to increase meat production. We propose to begin implementing some of the recommendations right away. The agriculture sector supports some of the most vulnerable sections of population and has huge employment potential. So we should give this sector the priority it deserves. We recognize that there are genuine political, social and emotional grievances of the people. We are trying honestly to address these issues. The visit of the all party delegation to the State last year was intended to bring about a national consensus on some of the important problems of the State. The problems of Jammu and Kashmir are complex and each of the regions of the State - whether it is Kashmir, Jammu or Ladakh -- have their own problems which require attention. A group of interlocutors was appointed to facilitate a continuous dialogue with all sections of the people of the State. There is no way forward but sustained dialogue and the resolution of all problems under a constitutional framework, that I believe has the flexibility to accommodate honourable and durable solutions for all.   As a part of our efforts to promote the balanced development of Jammu & Kashmir, the Government of India had set up Special Task Forces on the Jammu and Ladakh regions. While the reports of these Task Forces are being considered in consultation with the State Government, the Government of India has already made a budget provision of Rs. 250 crores for implementation of identified projects in Jammu and Ladakh regions.  I am happy to announce that we have decided to approve a plan for the modification / expansion of the airport terminal building of Jammu Civil Enclave at an approximate cost of Rs. 70 crore. This will enhance the passenger-handling capacity to 700 passengers at a time. I am happy that the State Government has committed itself to early conduct of panchayat elections. This will deepen the roots of democracy and ensure greater public participation in governance. But these bodies can only function effectively if there is adequate provision of funds, functions and functionaries. I urge the State Government to take early action in this regard.I said recently in Parliament that this sub-continent of ours will not realize its full development potential unless relations between India and Pakistan are normalized.  Despite all the problems, we have decided to resume the dialogue process.  We will enter these talks with an open mind.  We wish to resolve all outstanding issues between the two countries through friendly dialogue and constructive and purposeful negotiations.  And this includes the issue of Jammu & Kashmir. We will always keep the interests of the people of Jammu and Kashmir in our minds.  We are willing to discuss all issues that have a bearing on the peace, dignity and well-being of the people of Jammu & Kashmir.  Having said that, we cannot forget what happened in Mumbai.  I urge the Government of Pakistan to leave no stone unturned to bring the culprits to book.  The activities of extremist groups in Pakistan are a source of concern.  But I believe that there is a growing conviction in Pakistan among the thinking segments of the population that something serious needs to be done to curb the influence of these groups on Pakistani society and polity.  I urge Pakistan to take strong and resolute action against these groups that is in the interest of Pakistan, the region and the world at large.  Peace, development and prosperity in South Asia depend on peace, development and prosperity in each country of the region.In a few months, we will inaugurate the South Asian University in New Delhi.  The South Asian University is intended to tap the vast reservoir of intellectual talent in South Asia.  It seeks to strengthen our South Asian identity by building fraternal bonds through academic exchanges and by learning about each other. Leading universities such as the Sher-e-Kashmir University should think in terms of expanding their academic horizons by promoting regional studies and exchanges with other countries in the region. Before I conclude, let me once again congratulate today's graduating students.  I wish them all the very best for the future.  I sincerely hope that they will be able to contribute handsomely to the agricultural development of their state and their country.  I also wish the Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Jammu, its faculty and staff a prosperous and fulfilling future.  I would urge all of you to strive tirelessly to make this institution a centre of excellence.  Jai Hind.
