"It is a rare honour for me to be here today to inaugurate this most precious exhibition which reminds us of the high moon of India's freedom struggle inspired nurtured and led by Mahatma Gandhi. This is a sacred place for all of us and for generations we have all come here to pay tribute to Bapu and draw inspiration from his life and work. This multi-media exhibition will bring alive with the use of most modern technology the images, the word and the world of the Mahatma. Albert Einstein had famously said that generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this earth. But by now many generations across many nations, across many cultures, across many civilizations have come to believe, come to respect and come to revere the life and work of Mahatma. In keeping this memory alive, the many organizations that have dedicated themselves to the cause and the memory of Mahatma Gandhi, have played an admirable role. The keepers of this Birla house of 30 January Marg have also played their role. As Rajshreeji reminded us, this was the house where some of the most momentous decisions affecting the future of our nation were taken whenever Mahatma Gandhi happened to be in Delhi. This is now a national property and for this we are eternally grateful to the Birla families for donating this precious gift to the nation as a whole. The Birla families are known for their patriotism, for their commitment to national goals and for their belief that all wealth is a societal trust. I, therefore, congratulate the members of the Birla family, Shri B.K. Birla, Smt. Sarla Birla and Smt. Rajshree Birla for having taken this wonderful initiative. I do sincerely believe that generations to come will express their profound gratitude to those of you who have worked with such dedication and commitment to the memory of Bapu. There are many aspects of life and thoughts of Gandhiji that have given him a unique place in world history. What truly stands out is the fact that the truth he discovered in his lifetime and dedicated himself, the truth about Ahimsa, about the power of Satyagraha, about simple living and high thinking is a truth that is being constantly re-discovered again and again in one society or another. In that way Gandhiji has come to represent the finest eternal values which have sustained human civilization through these two millennia. I was very happy to read recently the growing appeal of the ideas of Gandhiji among the youth in such diverse societies as Germany, Japan, United States and Palestine. I was told that the entire Council of Ministers in Palestine was recently invited to a special screening of Richard Attenborough's film on Gandhiji. I believe it is stirring new sentiments for peace and brotherhood in this highly troubled world that we live in. Wherever there is the struggle for freedom, the struggle between might and right, the yearning for peace and a life of self-respect and dignity, where people wish to celebrate the dignity of labour and the toil of hard-working people, there the message of Gandhiji will resonate for generations to come. Exhibitions like this will help that cause by bringing the memory of the greatest soul of our times to life. I complement you on your dedication and excellent work and wish your endeavours all success. "
