Your Excellency President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi,
Distinguished Ministers and members of the Egyptian and Indian delegations; and, Friends from the media, I am delighted to welcome His Excellency Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, on his first state visit to India. Excellency, you are a man of many achievements, both at home and abroad. 1.25 billion people of India are happy to see you here. Egypt itself is a natural bridge that connects Asia with Africa. Your people are a voice of moderate Islam. And, your nation a factor for regional peace and stability in Africa and the Arab world. Egypt has always championed the cause of developing countries.
Friends, President and I held extensive discussions on the shape and substance of our partnership. We have agreed on an action oriented agenda to drive our engagements.An agenda that:
responds to our socio-economic priorities;
promotes trade and investment ties;
secures our societies;
helps build peace and harmony in our region; and
advances our engagement on regional and international issues.Friends, In our conversation, President Sisi and I have agreed to build on multiple pillars of our cooperation. We agreed to sustain and strengthen the momentum of high-level political exchanges. We recognized that strong trade and investment linkages are essential for economic prosperity of our societies. We, therefore, agreed that increased flow of goods, services, and capital between our two economieshas to be among our key priorities. To this end, the agreement on cooperation in maritime transport signed today will be an important facilitator. I would also urge our private sector to take the lead in building new business and commercial partnerships between the two countries. To diversify the portfolio of economic engagement, we will also deepen our cooperation in agriculture, skill development, small and medium industry and health sectors.
Friends, President and I are of one view that growing radicalization, increasing violence and spread of terror pose a real threat not just to our two countries. But, also to nations and communities across regions.In this context, we agreed to further our defence and security engagement which would aim at:
Expanding defence trade , training and capacity building;
Greater information and operational exchanges to combat terrorism;
Cooperation on emerging challenges of cyber security; and
Working together to fight drug trafficking, transnational crimes and money-laundering.
As two ancient and proud civilizations, with rich cultural heritage, we also decided to facilitate greater people-to-people contacts and cultural exchanges.
Excellency, India appreciates the good work that Egypt has been doing during its current term on the UN Security Council. Our decision to consult more closely on regional and global issues, both at the U.N. and outside, will benefit our common interests. We agreed that the U.N. Security Council needs to be reformed to reflect the realities of today. We also welcome Egypt’s participation at next week’s G20 Summit. We believe it will add value and enrich the substance of discussions at G-20.Your Excellency President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, Let me once again extend my warmest welcome to you and your delegation. I wish you and the Egyptian people all success. India stands ready to be a reliable partner in fulfillment of your developmental, economic and security goals.Thank you.
Thank you very much.1.25 billion people of India are happy to see you here. Egypt itself is a natural bridge that connects Asia with Africa: PM @narendramodiPresident and I held extensive discussions on the shape and substance of our partnership: PM @narendramodiIn our conversation, President Sisi and I have agreed to build on multiple pillars of our cooperation: PM @narendramodiAs ancient& proud civilizations with rich cultural heritage we decided to facilitate (more) people-to-people (ties) & cultural exchanges: PMIndia is ready to be a reliable partner in fulfillment of Egypt's developmental, economic & security goals. https://t.co/bwXv0UzOkP
